The sentiment clearly is anxietyridden.
>> We didn't call for some of the
geopolitical risk that we're seeing, but
we expected it to start to increase.
>> There is a risk that this goes on for
longer than what people are pricing in
today.
>> The picture right [music] now is more
nuanced and we're advocating for hedges.
>> When we look out over the next two to,
you know, four to 6 [music] months, we
think stocks look very good. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. [music]
Coming into Friday with crude fresh
eyes.
My administration announced decisive
action to help keep down the oil prices,
including offering political risk
insurance for tankers
transiting into the Gulf, as you know,
pretty dangerous territory. Further
action to reduce pressure on oil is
eminent and the oil seems to have pretty
much [music] stabilized.
>> The White House weighing its options to
put a lid on the price of energy as
traffic through the straight of is
grinding to a complete halt. The US
[snorts] is granting India a temporary
waiver to buy Russian crude. Oil is up
20% so far this week.
>> Yeah, it's the biggest weekly gain going
back to 2022 at the height of a Russians
invasion of Ukraine. We're looking at a
situation [music]
where it doesn't seem like there is an
off-ramp. Number one, but number two,
we're getting to a level in time where
even if there is an off-ramp, the
supplies are building in uh building up.
Cutter talking about how potentially
there could be a complete cessation
[music] of any exports of oil from the
region. talking about $150 a barrel in
the next few weeks unless this [music]
gets resolved.
>> This is getting real right now for Asian
refineries and it's getting real for the
administration as well as they
compromise arguably some of their
foreign policy objectives elsewhere.
This from the Treasury Secretary to
enable crude to keep flowing into the
global market. The Treasury Department
is issuing a temporary 30-day waiver to
allow India refiners to purchase Russian
crude. That's quite a headline,
>> especially given all of the sanctions
[music] and given the fact that this
administration's been trying to pressure
Russia to come to some sort of end
[music] with the war in Ukraine. A
question about whether this prolongs
that, whether that hastens the end or
some sort of resolution to that. This is
specified as only [music] barrels that
are on the sea right now. So, this isn't
necessarily things that could be shipped
from Russia going forward. So, there is
an expiration date. Nonetheless, it
shows the compromises and the difficult
decisions that are having to be made at
the White House. So all conversations
around this table [music] keep going
back to the same thing, the calendar.
What's the duration of this operation to
try and figure that out? You've got to
go through the goals. So let's go
through the objectives piece by piece.
Take out [music] the missiles, take out
the Navy, prevent them from getting a
nuclear weapon. But what about
leadership? [music] That's where things
get a little bit more confusing. Some
comments from the president to Axios
yesterday and to NBC. Here's the quote
to NBC. [music] We want to go in and
clean out everything. We want them to
have a good leader. We have some people
who I think would do a good job.
>> Yeah. unclear exactly who those people
are. We know who he doesn't think will
do a good job and that would be the son
of uh the recent uh supreme leader
Ayatollah Kmeni. There's a question here
going forward about how involved the
United States will be and what the US
will settle for. Not only who is [music]
going to potentially have the clout
within Iran to actually be a leader. A
lot of questions the calendar not very
much on the side of either the economy
or some of the policy makers.
>> Three minutes into the program. It's the
first time we're [music] going to
mention it. It's payroll Friday by the
way. 2 hours and about 27 minutes away,
we get a payroll report. The estimate in
our survey is 55K and rate pricing is
changing for different reasons. It's not
about the payrolls report. The data's
been [music] okay. We're pricing out
rate cuts because of what's happening
abroad as well. And in the ECB, the
pricing of that story has become very,
very interesting. [music] We're now
pricing in a rate hike by the end of the
year.
>> Yeah. which is pretty shocking
considering the deflationary effect or
at least the uh the hit to growth that
could really be experienced by the
region as a result of higher energy
prices. Look, we've priced out one rate
cut this year for the Federal Reserve.
So now there's just one rate cut fully
priced [music] for this year. I was
expecting that we wouldn't mention
non-farm payrolls until the 8 a.m. hour
because right now it is really important
in order to meet a threshold showing
strength in the US economy. If that
comes in below, that is the red alarm,
the five alarm fire for markets saying,
"Hold on, this is going to get really
extreme."
>> The jobs report at 8:30 Eastern time.
Equity futures this morning, new session
lows were negative 0.4%. Coming up this
hour, Stuart Kaiser of City as
volatility grips markets. Dan Stro and
Goldman Sachs with crude set for its
biggest weekly gain in four years. And
Claudia S of new sentry advisers with
inflationary risk ramping up. We begin
this hour with stocks little changed and
crude climbing above $85 a barrel.
Stuart Kaiser of City looking ahead to
payroll's writing. The impact of a weak
print will be far larger than an upside
surprise given underlying market stress.
Stu joins us now for more. Stu, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> How important is the underlying market
stress right now?
>> I mean, extremely. I think the market's
obviously a little more fragile, a
little more on edge, you know, than it
otherwise might have been. US obviously
holding on a lot better than the rest of
the world, but you know, to Lisa's
point, I think, you know, you kind of
want to get through this this payroll
almost is a nothing done. So, we can
kind of, you know, get back to the rest
of it. Um, you know, our our economists
lowered their forecast a bit yesterday
just because of the healthcare strikes,
but it seems like people are expecting,
you know, payrolls in the 30 to 50k
range, kind of unemployment rate 43 to
44. I think if you get kind of an inline
print, the market's going to be fairly
happy with that. One less thing to worry
about, and we can get back to other
things.
>> Well, let's worry about the other
things. Market direction right now
dictated by arguably the hardest asset
class to forecast. And that asset class,
the guys in it, energy forecasters right
now, the energy experts, the
geopolitical experts, they seem far more
concerned about the moment we're in than
the equity market participants that we
speak to on any given day. What explains
the difference?
>> I a couple things there. I think one,
equity markets tend to focus on like the
middle of the oil curve. So like, you
know, front month crude is up, call it
20%, two-year crude is up 5%. And
equities tend to like respond more to
that that medium to longer term oil
price. So I think that's a bit of it.
Equities are also, I think, in a little
bit of a once biddy on this. You know,
when you think back to Russia, Ukraine,
there was all these concerns. Oil is
going to 120, oil is going to 150. It
never quite got there. And then, you
know, equity markets were able to kind
of compartmentalize that and and move
on. So, I think you're in a situation
where the underlying fundamentals,
earnings, economy, etc. are still pretty
positive and people want to own this
equity market. They're sort of being
held on the sidelines now by these
incredible uncertainties that you just
don't know how far they could spill
spill out. I would say the bar for bad
news is quite high right now. I mean
some of the headlines we've seen like in
isolation you would have thought would
have been extremely negative for US
equities and the fiveday trading range
in the S&P is less than 3%. I mean it's
it's been pretty well contained in the
US Europe and and EM obviously a
different discussion.
>> That's a difference I wanted to explore
the comfort you might have around the US
story. Do you have that comfort of the
international trade?
>> I would say definitely not not right
now. I mean in like Korea I think is
more of a positioning issue, but clearly
Japan and Europe are trading based on
the the increased or the higher exposure
they have to energy cost inputs and and
shipping and and that's kind of impacted
them. Look, it helps that the US is a
net energy exporter as well. But but it
certainly seems like and you're seeing
that with ECB pricing as well, right?
The market is pricing a a much trickier
balancing act in Europe than they are in
the US right now.
>> This is essentially turning the entire
narrative of 2026, at least in January
and most of February, on its head. How
violent has this rotation been given the
fact that everyone was saying go outside
of the US. The US is going to
underperform. The rest of the world is
where the outperformance is going to be.
>> It feels a little like last year,
doesn't it? Everybody was piling into
the Europe and then you got liberation
day and then everybody came back came
back to the US. So maybe there's a
little bit of a logic to this. Who
knows?
>> Hold on a second. No, but just to build
on that. I mean, there's a question of
how much the sort of technical
underpinning of short the dollar has
been blown out of sort of long EM has
been blown out. how much the speculative
trades have actually fully been unwound.
Do you have a sense of where we are in
that or are people trying to hold on
waiting for some sort of further uh
catalyst to fully throw in their chips?
>> Uh look, you know, in the US at least, I
don't think we've seen much blowout. I
mean, you you've seen some modest moves
under the surface, but that was kind of
an ongoing theme for most of the year.
It does feel like particularly in
emerging Asia, you've had people, you
know, take a lot of risk out and Europe,
I would say, as well. Europe's also a
little bit less liquid than the US. So,
you know, less dollars of outflow kind
of have have a little bit more impact on
that market. So, it's it's there. I
mean, we are relatively early innings. I
still I think still if these if you're
going to like quote unquote fully
rotate. So, I I think some progress has
been made. I don't know third, fourth
inning, but we're definitely not eighth
or ninth inning. Not not in three or
four trading days.
>> It's a process, that's for sure. I
reached out to Natasha Ka over at JP
Morgan, runs the energy strategy
research. Fantastic details. Take a
listen to this. If Horus remains
effectively closed, supply losses would
accelerate. By day eight, we project
roughly 3.3 million barrels per day of
shutins. That rises to 3.8 by day 15 and
almost five by day 18. That's how things
start to stack up as the days go by.
>> Yeah. Some people are talking about 3 to
four weeks when that the pain point
really comes in. The fact that that
cutters energy minister is coming out
and saying actually it'll take a week or
two before we get to $150 a barrel
indicates that people who are in this
and maybe there's other messaging
aspects to this but that people who are
in this see a very different timeline.
>> St. Where on the calendar does it get
real for you? As you mentioned we're
still what 2% away from all time highs
on the S&P. When does it get real? Look,
I I think most most equity investors, at
least in the US, were assuming that, you
know, if you what did the math that this
would last a a week to two and if it
goes beyond that, then I think you'll
start to see some of these pressure
points, you know, kind of get triggered.
I again I think going in the view was
hey for let's say 7 to 10 days this is
an international issue.
>> Yeah. um after seven to 10 days as you
mentioned with the leadership it becomes
more of a domestic issue and what we've
seen with these is when they become a
domestic issue US equity markets are
more than happy to put that in a little
box over there and say as long as oil
prices don't move sharply and
sustainably higher I'm willing to kind
of you know leave that in that box over
there and I I think that that is still
kind of the playbook but look I think if
we're still having this conversation 7
days from now then it's it's going to be
it's going to be a bigger issue
>> it's not good that we're seeing a
tightening of financial conditions in
certain pockets of the market Not an
aggressive tightening of financial
markets. Not as far as I can see. And
that raises a different question. Is
there a tightening of financial
conditions right now that I can't see in
private markets?
>> There could be in private markets. I
think you're seeing a an effective
tightening of financial conditions in
volatility and risk pricing. I mean, the
the size of the risk premium in oil
volatility in the VIX, so the cost of
VIX upside is extremely high. So I think
you have people are hedging it that way
as opposed to kind of taking down taking
down their core risk on the financial
condition side. I mean rates are up a
bit. I'm actually was quite surprised
how quickly this became an inflation
discussion. I mean by Monday we were
already talking about oh the
inflationary impact and it'll be going
out a couple of days. So I think equity
markets frankly equity investors I speak
to were a little bit confused by that.
like how did we get you know we skipped
the oil we skipped the equity selling
off and we were already like in an
inflationary discussion and frankly the
inflationary impact is months out right
so it it it is quite interesting I think
that you've seen yields move and you've
also seen the 10-year point move you
don't typically trade inflation through
the 10-year part of the curve so that
the bond market is is I seems a little
bit more stressed and is treating this a
little bit more a little differently
than we might have initially expected
>> what would you have to see to get allin
bullish again
>> it's a great I tell you, like I think to
escalate significantly, you're going to
need to see successful attacks probably
on NATO countries or you're going to
need to see a concerted effort to go
after Middle Eastern oil infrastructure.
I think those are the two types of
headlines that would get you get you
much worse off. You know what what gets
you out of it? I think it's it's simply,
you know, that that the strait is going
to be reopened basically, right? I mean,
that that that's where you need to get
to. I mean, you know, we're having
client calls this week with with
investors in the Middle East that are,
you know, interrupting calls because of
alerts and are worried about how they're
going to evacuate buildings, right? I
mean, it's hard to manage your portfolio
when when that's your when that's your
primary concern. So, look, I think to
get out of this, it start to get out of
this. It it's simply just deescalatory,
you know, talk. It could simply be, hey,
we are done with the initial sort of
bombing campaigns and from now on
anything will be sort of opportunistic,
right? And that would be sort of an
initial hint that we're starting to
deescalate. Um, you know, I I don't
think SPR does much, frankly. I I don't
think that that stuff really helps. I
think this is a question of when do
military operations look like they
peaked and are starting to go the other
way. So, I can start to shorten the
duration on this so I don't need to
worry about two and fiveyear oil prices
kind of, you know, resetting higher.
>> It can change quickly. It's just not
changing very quickly right now. Stuart,
it's good to see you as always. Thank
you, sir. Stuart Kaiser there of City
bond yield higher for a fifth
consecutive session on a 10-year
maturity. Yields are up by three basis
points approaching $420 on a 10-year.
Quick check of crude right now. WTI and
Brent Bren topping $87 a barrel as
things trade. Let's keep an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhira has more. Hey
Yhierra.
>> Good morning John. Iran fired a barrage
of missiles and drones targeting
countries across the Persian Gulf
overnight including [music] Saudi
Arabia, Kuwait, and Bahrain. Meanwhile,
Israel renewed its own air strikes
hitting [music] Thrron and Beirut. Fears
of a protracted war around the strategic
straight of Hormuz are [music] roying
markets with crude headed for its
biggest weekly surge since 2022.
Meanwhile, shipping giants are
suspending container services around the
Persian Gulf as the Iran war presses
[music] on. Marisk is cutting two of its
key services that connect the Middle
East [music] to East Asia and Europe.
HPA Lloyd also said it had suspended
several services as trade flows [music]
face major disruptions
and President Donald Trump saying he
needs [music] to be personally involved
in picking Iran's next leader. Trump
reiterating the son of recently killed
Supreme Leader Ham [music] is
unacceptable
choice despite him being viewed as a
frontr [music] runner. Trump also
encouraging Iranian Kurdish forces to go
on the defense offensive against the
IRGC. Dr. Bloomberg brief John
>> Yhara. Thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, Capping [music]
the crude crisis.
>> My administration announced decisive
action to help keep down the oil prices.
Further action to reduce pressure on oil
is eminent and the oil seems to have
pretty much stabilized.
>> Up next, [music] Terry Haynes of Pangia
Policy live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> It certainly doesn't feel like it, but
it is a payrolls Friday. Your guesses
look like this. The estimate 55K, the
previous number 130. The 3month moving
average is higher given the [music] move
that we saw last month. Can we get a
repeat a little bit later this morning?
We'll get the view. anticipating this
jobs report from Governor Chris Waller
of the Federal Reserve. An important
conversation coming up on this program
later on this morning. That's about an
hour away. Let's get you a sneak peek of
the price action. Equity futures right
now, the S&P 500, the NASDAQ, the
Russell declining by around a third of
1% given this move right here in
commodities. [music] Brent and WTI. The
move continues up by 20% so far this
week. Brent crude pushing 88, WTI in the
80s.
>> And this still isn't pricing in a
prolonged conflict. I think that's
really important to note that this is
actually just flirting with the idea
that this closure could keep going for a
couple of weeks. It's not thinking about
the backup. The fact that we're talking
$130, $150 a barrel [music] should this
go on for a couple of weeks highlights
what that threshold could actually look
like.
>> Oil still climbing under Savas this
morning capping the crude crisis.
My administration announced decisive
action to help keep down the oil prices,
including offering political risk
insurance for tankers
transiting into the Gulf, as you know,
pretty dangerous territory. Further
action to reduce pressure on oil is
eminent and the oil seems to have pretty
much stabilized.
>> Here's the latest this morning. The
White House looking at all options to
backs stop oil prices with crude set for
its biggest weekly gain since 2022.
Shipping giants pulling out of the Gulf
region with traffic through the straight
of former coming to a near total stop.
Joining us from Washington, Bloomberg's
Jeff Mason joins us now for more. Jeff,
welcome to the program. It's getting
real for gas prices. What options does
the White House have?
>> Well, they haven't detailed a lot of the
options that they're looking at, but
you're right to say they're they're
keeping an open mind about them.
certainly the ones that the president
outlined there in terms of insurance and
and having a navy escort for ships in
the straits of Hormuz. I would like to
just highlight the political risk for
him in seeing these oil prices go up.
That of course translates to higher
gasoline prices and gasoline prices
really matter in the midterm elections.
Uh which is going to be pretty important
for the balance of power in Washington
coming in November.
>> Jeff, for markets, we're trying to
figure out how long this operation will
continue for. And as we try and gauge
that, we're following the objectives.
And they seem to shift. The core
objectives, take out the missiles, take
out the Navy, and prevent them from
having a nuclear weapon. But on
leadership, it gets a little bit more
confusing. The president with some
comments recently both to Axios and NBC.
Jeff, this is what he said to NBC. We
want to go in and clean out everything.
We want them to have a good leader. We
have some people who I think would do a
good job. Jeff, where are we on that?
Well, the president also said this week
that all of the leaders that were sort
of in contention for the top position
were dead. And that of course is a
result of the US operations. So, he
hasn't really outlined how he wants to
have the influence that he's suggesting
he wants to have. He hasn't ruled out
putting ground troops in, but if he
talks about ground troops, that's going
to have even more political and e
economic risk. So I don't have an answer
to your question in terms of what what's
next other than to say he obviously has
made clear he wants to have an impact
but that impact is going to be affected
by to to what extent the US does more
than just an aerial campaign.
>> So Jeff from the perspective of a lot of
people tracking this story is not
Karakas but does the White House see
parallels with the effort in Venezuela?
>> I think the parallels at least that the
president sees are success. He looks at
what happened in Venezuela and sees that
as having been a really good operation.
It was clean. Uh there weren't US
casualties. That does not apply now to
the operation in Iran because there have
been US casualties. But he's he's a
we're going to keep winning guy. And so
I think that's the that's the parallel
that he sees. We'll see if that works
out.
>> Hey Jeff, it's good to see you. Stay
close. One you Jeff Mason down in
Washington DC. We'll see Jeff in the
next hour. This is a far more open-ended
operation than what we saw take place in
Venezuela based on a goal so far and the
difficulty achieving them in a place
like Thran relative to a place like
Caracus.
>> That's the reason why when you heard
Stuart Kaiser talk about what he was
looking for. It could be anything
because we don't know what the offramp
actually looks like and I think that
that is part of the anxiety bleeding
into markets.
>> Terry Hayes of Pangia Policy joins us
now for more. Terry, welcome. To Lisa's
point, is there an off-ramp available to
the president to take should he wish to
take one?
Uh well sure but but I think uh I think
markets should take seriously the idea
that uh that they are going to uh
execute and complete their core
objectives and their core objectives are
getting rid of the nuclear program uh
degrading the military capacity u and
you know as part of that uh getting rid
of the ability of Iran to even fire uh
ballistic missiles and drones. Uh,
Sentcom Commander Admiral Cooper said
yesterday that u that the drone the the
ability to fire drones is down 83%. So
they're they they're saying they're well
on their way to doing that. Uh so all
those are I think essentials. Uh kind of
the regime modification, regime change
uh is as much as anything a nice to
have. And uh and I would look at uh you
know the president and the United States
not dictating uh who becomes the next
leader. I would look more of at this
more of a collaboration uh with our Gulf
allies who have so much on the line and
frankly have been backing us up here for
years.
>> Do we have a sense Terry of what the
pressure points are right now for this
administration? Is it gasoline prices at
the pump in the United States? Is it
some of the pressure being put on the
administration by Gulf allies? I mean,
do we have a sense of what nodes of
leverage there are out there?
>> Leverage to stop the uh the to stop the
invasion and the uh the operation.
>> Yes.
>> Uh I
I would look for them to complete the
operation. Uh you know, the Gulf allies
were uh supportive uh before uh broadly
speaking and I think that's important to
understand. the a lot of the press in
the United States plays the uh uh plays
the Gulf countries as if our are our
major non-NATO allies, let's uh use the
United States terminology, uh plays them
as if they've now just woken up to the
Iranian threat where uh Iran is uh is
trying to exercise whatever leverage it
could uh in the region for the past
several years by and large because it
perceived our Gulf allies as threats.
So, uh, you know, by and large, we're
going to finish this operation, uh, on
the military side certainly, and, uh, I
wouldn't look at, uh, even a higher oil
price for the next couple of weeks, uh,
as being a red line there. Uh, they, you
know, they're not in this to to take
half measures and pull back out.
>> That said, Terry, I mean, and John laid
it out pretty clearly. It's kind of
unclear what the ultimate goals are. I
mean there are lots of different ones
depending on who you talk to and within
each of those out outcomes are vagaries
right you mean you could sort of discuss
what it means to prevent a nuclear
program over the long term what it means
to have a hand in selecting the new
leadership is there something in
particular that you think will be sort
of the all clear mark that will signal
some sort of at least achievement of
those goals
>> uh no when they say they're done they're
going to be done and then we'll get the
opportunity to uh uh to assess whether
or not they actually achieve chieve
their aims. Uh but other than that, no.
Uh they are not going to be in a
position and you know the uh the
commanders, General Kaine, General C or
Admiral Cooper and the like as well as
the the Secretary of Defense have said
repeatedly they're not going to they're
not going to litigate day by day in the
press and I you Marcus shouldn't look
for it. Terry getting some headlines
crossing the Bloombo terminal from the
Iranian president talking about some
countries reaching reaching out to
mediate and start having talks. No idea
which countries they are, which nations,
etc. But here's the comment. Our
response to them is clear. We're
committed to lasting peace in the
region, but we do not have the slightest
hesitation in defending the dignity and
authority of our country. Terry, it
keeps begging a question, I think,
whenever we get these comments from the
foreign minister or the president. Who
is actually running this operation in
Iran?
>> Well, that's a pretty good question. uh
and uh I don't have an answer to it. You
know, you you've got by all accounts uh
you've got kind of the top layer or two
of of the old Iranian leadership kind of
cleaved off now. uh and uh you know the
it's the you know putting up uh Kam's
son uh struck me as uh a bunch of people
I mean just kind of anecdotally struck
me as a bunch of people saying well I
don't know let's we you know on a
transition basis let's put up the son of
the uh the previous leader and uh you
know see what happens uh but you know I
think these people are going to go a
little bit hardline uh they are people
who have been in the kind of third
fourth level uh more true believers uh
than anything else. Uh and it's going to
take a little bit more to uh push them
into in in the right direction and
actually be constructive about uh
finishing this.
>> Terry, it's good to see you as always.
Terry Haynes there of Pangia Policy.
There is a major power vacuum in that
country right now. [music]
>> There's a lot of questions about exactly
how you get leadership and who right now
is that [music] leadership.
>> Up next, Dan Straven of Goldman Sachs
raising its forecast on the price of
crude.
Taking back some of Wednesday's bounce
in yesterday's session. Equity futures
declining once again. Some negative
follow through. We're down by, [music]
let's call it a third of 1% on both the
S&P and the NASDAQ. The NASDAQ holding
in quite well until recently. Semis
started to give way. That's something to
keep an eye on, but energy is [music]
dictating absolutely everything. Check
it out. Commodities, Bren, and WTI
crude. Brent so far this week is up by
about 20%, on the year now it's up by
something like 40%, and this week the
biggest jump [music] on a weekly basis
going back to the energy crisis of 22.
>> The difference this time around is
sometimes when there's an oil price
shock, people wonder, is it inflationary
or is it disinflationary, outright
deflationary as a result of the hit to
consumption ability of consumers. This
time it's just being a clear read into
inflation and suddenly we're pricing out
some of the rate cuts that previously
had been in. And as you mentioned
earlier, pricing in a rate hike over in
the ECB. You just start to wonder how
much this is whipping [music] a lot of
trades for this year on their head and
how much there's turn onto the markets
as a result of being caught off sides.
>> A lot of people caught offside.
Massively cross asset. This bond move
down by 30 basis points through February
on a 10-year maturity. Now up for five
consecutive sessions, up [music] another
three basis points on 10's 41673.
And it's not just been about crude. The
data's been decent as well. The ISM's
been strong. Fantastic [music] news on
that front. Claims have held in. That's
okay. Payroll is a little bit later this
morning. [music]
>> This is a reason why payrolls is
actually incredibly interesting. Stuart
Kaiser was saying that it kind of has a
high bar to clear. If you see that there
is a good momentum in the US labor
market, well, people will go back into
risk or at least feel more stable with
it. If you get a negative print, [music]
well, it's all bets are off. And you
start to wonder, okay, well then is a
bid into bonds a bad thing? Because if
[music] you get a bid into bonds because
this is disinflationary, sagflationary
or deflationary, then you have another
problem and you start to question the
underpinnings of the economic recovery.
>> What does it mean for the Federal
Reserve 60 minutes from now? We'll catch
up with the Fed Governor Chris Waller.
Look out for that conversation later.
What does it mean for the White House
and what's the plan to address this
situation in the energy market? We'll
catch up with the National Economic
Council Director Kevin Hasset to react
to the payrolls report and get his
thoughts on what's happening with energy
that's taking [music] place at 9:30
Eastern time. as we count you down to
that opening bell also three hours away.
Let's get you some morning movers.
Yahara has more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We start with Gap shares. They
are falling nearly 7% in the pre-market
after the company missed on sales. The
biggest drag came from Athleta. It's
athletic wear [music] brand where same
store sales fell 10%. Another drag on
the results was these winter storms
[music] forcing stores to close and its
results really highlighting the K-shaped
consumer trend with its more premium
brands like [music] Gap and Banana
Republic doing very well whereas its
most more value focused brand Old Navy
really struggled. [music] Uh meanwhile,
moving on to technology with Marvel
shares are soaring 12% in the pre-market
after it's raised its outlook [music]
due to stronger than expected growth in
its data center business. It echoes what
we heard from Broadcom earlier this week
that these cloud companies are still
pouring money into the chip makers for
the AI buildout. And we end on the top
gainer and the S&P and that [music] is
Battalion Oil. Shares are surging 27%
adding to the extraordinary run [music]
this stock has had this week up more
than 300% as the small oil producer out
of West Texas tracks that spike [music]
in crude prices you were just talking
about. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yhara [music] later this hour
on our radar this morning. The president
vowing to take action to slow rising
gold prices.
My administration announced decisive
action to help keep down the oil prices.
Further action to reduce pressure on oil
is eminent and the oil seems to have
pretty much stabilized.
>> The cost of retail gasoline in the
United States hitting their highest
level since September 2024. Elsewhere,
the United States clearing the way for
India to increase purchases of Russian
crude. The waiver issued late last night
expires on April 4th. The Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson sang on X. move
is to keep oil flowing in the global
market. And finally, container shipping
giants MES and Hapak Lloyd suspending
key routes due to the war with Iran. Me
saying in a statement, it's halting
routes connecting the Middle East with
Europe as well as its Gulf shuttle
service.
>> This is going to be an increasing
problem because it's not just oil. It's
also a key component that goes into
fertilizer. A significant amount of it
travels through this route, the straight
of Hermuz, which is essentially closed.
It's not officially closed, but if you
take a look, there are about one or two
ships that are trying to go through
there and then they circle back and they
say, "Never mind." So you start
effectively seeing a closure raises a
question about supply chain disruptions
and the ripple effects that go much
beyond just the initial couple of days
because why would they go through? I
mean you talk about the insurance plan
that the US has proposed. Is that
enough? I mean can they pay anybody
enough to go into the line of fire? And
I think that the answer just by virtue
of how many ships are in uh they're
waiting to get through is not very many.
>> If you can't move it, how much can you
produce? Where's your storage? What's
the release valve? We've talked lots
about this East West pipeline from Saudi
Arabia that could do five to seven
million barrels of oil per day, but
they're producing maybe upwards of 10.
The math doesn't add up. At some point,
you have to start cutting production.
We've seen it in Iraq. The question is,
how quickly do we start to see it
elsewhere? And they're the headlines
you're looking for in this market.
>> And then the question of how long does
it take to bring that production back?
How much does that lead for the oil
supply glut to turn into an oil supply
deficit at a time when otherwise you
have an economy globally that's doing
okay? These are the questions that point
to a prolonged disruption in supply
chain issue. That isn't necessarily
something that you can stop just by
turning on a tap.
>> Let's keep it on energy. Brent crude on
track for the biggest weekly gain since
2022. Kata warning it's w halting all
exports until the fighting stops. Dan
Stroven and Goldman Sachs raising his
Brent forecast by 10 bucks and writing
this risk remain significantly skewed to
the upside if Homer's volumes remain
flat for five more weeks. Brent would
likely reach $100 a barrel. Dan joins us
now for more. Dan, welcome to the
program. Let's just start with storage
capacity. How close are we to bumping up
against some limits and key markets, key
producers across the Middle East?
>> Yeah, we already hit it uh in Iraq. Uh
and if you sort of look at the six key
exporters uh in in the Gulf Gulf region
um you know we we estimate that u you
know most of them would hit storage
capacity constraints over the next month
if the disruptions were to be sustained
with some producers with more limited
storage capacity hitting the constraints
earlier and and we're talking days weeks
not not months here.
>> Dan, what kind of workarounds do they
have? We mentioned that pipeline in
Saudi Arabia. Do others have a similar
release valve?
So the two significant pipelines are the
east west pipeline from Saudi Arabia uh
and then you also have the Fujay
pipeline from from the UEE. Um you know
we estimate that if both pipelines um
operate at full capacity and if the
ports supporting uh the the
transportation of the barrels once
they're out of the pipeline to the rest
of the world. If all that infrastructure
is intact, we estimate around uh you
know 3.6 6 million barrels per of extra
pipeline spare capacity beyond what you
what you usually usually do. That's
that's helpful, but that that still
leaves uh you know roughly 16 17 million
barrels per day uh of of supply uh at at
risk. Uh and at the moment um we the
data we're tracking suggests that the
the Fuja pipeline is still not running
at full capacity and and you're seeing
the spillovers to supply chains. In
fact, the ships that need to pick up the
barrels in the Fujara port uh are are
reportedly running out of marine fuel
because the marine fuel typically comes
via via the strait. Other
vulnerabilities are attacks on
pipelines, attacks on ports. So, um this
could be a partial offset, but it's it
is vulnerable and fragile uh on its own
in an environment with elevated physical
risks.
>> Given all of that, Dan, I'm surprised
that you just have $100 a barrel for
your target in the next 5 weeks should
the straight of Hermoose continue to be
closed. Qatar's energy minister came out
and said that he would expect it to be
$150 a barrel in the next couple of
weeks if the straight of Ramoose does
not open up. Why just $100?
>> Yes. So I think that the upside uh to to
that number is uh you know is is
meaningful. Um I think in in that
scenario um you know we we assumed um
15% of the flows would still be be
coming through. At the moment we're
seeing less that scenario also assumed
um full pipeline redirection and that
scenario sort of assumed that prices
would require price levels to jump to
demand destruction levels when you sort
of hit the critically low levels of
early 2022 during during the Russian
energy crisis. Um but the supply shock
here is significantly bigger uh than the
than the during the Russian energy
crisis. And so it's very plausible that
markets start to price demand
destruction uh more quickly uh at less
low inventory levels just because the
speed at which you're approaching uh
these limits is is faster. For context
um you know this supply shock the supply
risk is around 15 times bigger than than
in 2022. So absolutely I think the data
that have come out in the last few days
since we published that note uh are are
all consistent with significant upside
risk. How much is we've been talking a
lot about this note that we got from
Jeff Curry of of Carlilele over the
weekend talking about a structural risk
premium that needs to be priced into oil
and other commodities. I just wonder how
much you're rethinking your fullear
forecast as a result not just of this
disruption and however long it goes on
but also about the stockpiling that may
go on the change in people's sentiment
around using the seas to get goods from
one place to another.
>> Yes. So I I think the two main uh
mechanisms through which you could see a
persistent impact of only a temporary
supply disruption. One is you know
inventory depletion. Um while drops in
exports may be offset by an overshoot of
exports down the road if you prevent
production shutins. If you have
production shutins you simply start with
lower inventory levels and that all
things equals means higher prices. And
second, the jubilical risk premium or
sort of the security premium as as Jeff
has coined it uh is is likely to to be
to be stickier for longer. Um especially
in a in a world where you know Iran has
some asymmetric warfare capabilities or
its proxies have uh you know in other in
other places places too the straight of
our moose is the biggest shock. We're
laser focused on it, but I think the
events of the last last week are a
reminder that uh you know that broader
broader risks to to energy supply have
to be have to be monitored and likely
priced.
>> As we speak, Dan Gunnison moves on a
Bloomberg. I want to share with our
audience. 88 on Bren briefly through 85
on WTI for the first time since spring
of 2024. Clearly done as we have this
conversation. Asia is exposed to this
story. Japan, India, other countries as
well. But clearly ahead of time, China
stockpiled onshore and Iran actually
filled tankers offshore. Now I'm trying
to understand for Asian refineries
specifically, what kind of cushions do
they have at the moment? What kind of
things levers can they pull?
>> Yeah, I think it varies significantly
across country. I think China is
relatively well positioned despite the
fact that they import about 3/4ers of
their their consumption because we
estimate that China has stockpiled
around 110 days of of oil demand. Some
other some other Asian countries have
have lower lower buffers and we're
already starting to see signs of
shortages. In fact, the price of a
barrel um of of jet fuel in Singapore at
the moment is already uh above $200 per
barrel. Um, and I think there's a double
whammy here. The Middle East exports a
lot of jet fuel. Uh, and uh, China's
main refined product exports is is jet.
And China is is cutting its refined
product exports. And so ultimately what
matters for the real economy and for the
impact on inflation and growth is the
impact on refined products. And we're
seeing the the really violent violent
price action in refined product markets
as opposed to the crude market.
>> It's getting real, that's for sure. Dan,
it's good to see you as always. Dan
Stroven there of Goldman Sachs. Just to
recap the price action briefly and once
again topping 85 on WTI up by more than
5% on the session so far. Brent crude
through 88 and approaching 89 up by 3.8%
on the day so far. Asian refiners are in
a little bit of a bind right now.
There's some levers you can pull but
it's getting real and you're seeing it
in the price big time.
>> Yeah. And the fact that Asian refineries
have to deal with the fact that the
input of oil is down but also the
refinery in Bahrain that was attacked.
So the refineries are being sort of
taken offline around the world as well.
So it really puts people who are
importing oil in a vulnerable spot again
turning the narrative of this year on
its head.
>> I'm pleased you brought up the Jeff Cary
piece once again because this speaks
directly to the question mark around
just in time energy delivery and China
hasn't be behaved that way over the last
year or so. They've been stockpiling
crude for good reason given what's been
playing out. A lot of countries will be
conditioned to do exactly the same thing
in the year to come. So it just raises
this issue of structurally do you have a
higher price on some of these energy
inputs and frankly on commodities more
broadly at a time when everyone's trying
to build out their industrial complex
whether it's for weaponry or whether
it's for energy and this really just
again points to why people are treating
this as an inflationary story more than
they have maybe in the past.
>> Another big move in energy the headline
cross on a Bloomberg terminal moments
ago WTI crude topping $85 a barrel for
the first time since April 2024. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yhara has more. Hey, Yihara.
>> Hi, John. AI leader Anthropic saying it
will issue a legal challenge to the
Pentagon after being declared a threat
to the US supply chain. CEO [music]
Dario Amore uh planning to take the
Pentagon to court, saying he sees no
choice but to do so. The decision
putting Anthropic's $200 million
contract with the Defense Department to
provide it with classified [music] AI
tools at serious risk.
Meanwhile, President Trump has fired DHS
Secretary Christy Gnome in the first
shakeup of his second [music] term
cabinet to date. Gnome had recently come
under fire from lawmakers on both sides
of the aisle [music] over deadly
immigration operations in Minneapolis
that saw two US citizens killed [music]
as well as high budget advertising
campaigns for the DHS that she
commissioned. Trump announcing that
Oklahoma Senator Mark Wayne Mullen will
succeed her in that role. And President
Trump's tariff agenda facing another
illegal fight. [music] Two dozen states
are suing the president for the 10%
global levy he imposed on imports,
saying it is fatally flawed [music] in a
lawsuit. Trump is using section 122 of
the trade act of 1974 to impose the
tariffs following the Supreme Court's
decision to strike down his [music] AIPA
tariffs from last year. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
the next hour. In the markets right now,
oil at new highs, equities at new lows.
Up next, inflation [music]
at the pump.
>> Gas prices obviously if they're up, that
is inflationary. Textbook uh monetary
policy would [music] be you look through
a short-term shock, but you don't look
through a long-term shock.
>> Up next, Claudia S of New [music] Centry
Adviserss live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Tension in the Middle East cascading
through global markets. Equities and new
lows for the session down by 0.5% on the
NASDAQ down by 6. In the commodity
market, new highs through 85 for the
first time since April 2024 on WTI. And
right now on Brent crude getting closer
to the 90 to 8860. [music]
That's unlocking higher bond yields
ahead of payrolls later this morning.
Your bond story looks like this. Yields
higher for a fifth consecutive session
up by three basis points. Still
rangebound for the year. [music] I get
that. But pushing the top end of the
range 416 93. And ultimately the
market's doing scenario analysis here
and it's saying on the margins this is
inflationary [music]
which is unique because in previous oil
shocks sometimes there is a debate
whether it is inflationary or
deflationary. [music]
This time there isn't. It seems like
everyone is just piling in saying
ultimately this will increase prices and
it will have a prolonged effect and push
the Fed away from cutting rates so soon.
>> Let's have that conversation right now
under Savantis this morning. Inflation
at the pump.
It's still the case that the price at
the pump matters a lot uh in terms of
sentiment in terms of crowding out other
spending. Gas prices obviously uh if
they're up that is inflationary textbook
uh monetary policy would be you look
through a short-term shock but you don't
look through a long-term shock. You've
got a couple months of relatively high
inflation. That certainly puts [music]
pause to any conclusion that we're done
uh you know fighting this.
>> So here's the [music] latest this
morning. US gas prices reaching their
highest levels in 18 months.
Inflationary risks mounting as the Iran
war takes a toll on the global economy.
Claudia Sam of New Century Advisor
writing, "The risk of sticky inflation
have become more prominent. [snorts] A
Fed rate cut will likely require data
showing a clear slowing in core
inflation." Claudia joins us now for
more. Claudia, welcome. We've clearly
got an energy shock developing before
our eyes right now. When do you believe
that becomes a problem for the Federal
Reserve?
Well, it certainly is a complication and
and what I had said about the Fed
wanting to see some clear slowing in
core inflation. I think that was true
before this week as well. I mean, that
really was a basis in their pause. Labor
market looks like signs of
stabilization. Inflation is still
running closer to 3% than 2%. And they
want to see now what they'd been
watching up until this week was the
tariff pass through to show some
completion and core goods prices to
start moving down. And now now we have
another shock for the Fed to be on watch
and coming through the economy and and
the big piece of this is how long this
energy shock lasts. And the context
matters. What was said about the
textbook response look through the oil
shock. Yes, that is correct. But the
context here is we have had elevated
inflation for several years and the Fed
is very sensitive to making sure that we
do not get stuck at higher levels of
inflation.
>> Claudia, the key piece of the puzzle
also is the labor market. given the
labor market conditions currently, do
you believe that gives them the space to
wait to wait and see?
>> So, I think stepping back from the Fed,
we should be really wanting to see a
labor market in February that is showing
further signs of stabilization, right?
If we have a shock coming at the economy
and the higher energy prices will be a
shock for American consumers. So, if
you've got a shock coming at you, you
want to have the best most resilient
backdrop to buffer it, right? So I think
we should all be very thankful that
there have been signs for months now
that there's been some stabilization in
the labor market. Hopefully we'll get
some confirmation of that. Yes, that
gives Fed less reason to get active and
cutting. That's good, right? Like we
don't want a labor market that is in a
weakening position, but it does in the
Fed context, if that's what you're
focused on, you know, they had been
moving and cutting rates last year and
the year before on concerns about the
labor market. They're going to protect
this labor market. If it looks okay,
then their attention is shifted to
inflation and there's some problems on
the inflation side where they're going
to be cautious and wait before they make
make their next cut.
>> Claudia, this employment market has been
incredibly confusing because of
structural demographic changes and all
sorts of other compositional changes.
What's a good number and what's a bad
number for the Federal Reserve?
>> So, frankly, they're going to focus on
the unemployment rate. It is very hard
to read payrolls. I mean, we're going to
look at all the details of the data,
including the payroll employment, and we
would like to definitely see something
that is positive, uh, and, you know,
notably positive, but it's really the
unemployment rate is where you kind of
bring together the supply and the demand
factors that are really unusual and
pretty pretty big movers like this, uh,
supply of labor uh, slowing down with
less immigration. So, an unemployment
rate that stays at 4.3%, the Chicago
Fed's models have a little extra
probability on it even moving down given
some of the recent labor market
indicators, but if you kind of stay in
that ballpark of where the unemployment
rate is, I think the Fed will will see
this as confirmation of some
stabilization. Uh, now they were they're
watching payrolls very carefully and I
think in particular watching this
morning any revisions to payrolls in
prior months. So, January was, you know,
a sign of stabilization. if you know we
want to see that survive today's
revisions as well.
>> Yeah, the 130,000 that shocked markets
pretty broadly. I am curious also about
other changes that have been going on
under the surface in the employment
market yesterday. A huge debate around
the upside surprise and productivity
numbers coming out in the fourth quarter
for the United States. A question of how
much this is tied to artificial
intelligence and new gains in the
workforce on that level. What's your
take on that? How important is that to
color the debate both for markets and
for the Fed?
Yeah. So I've been taught not to get too
excited about any one quarter of
productivity growth. I mean these tend
to revise. It's putting together a lot
of pieces of data GDP and hours worked
and and those attend to particularly our
early reads in the economy things
revised. So but what I do think is
important to pull out of that
productivity report is if we look at the
cycle as a whole. So going all the way
back to the pandemic averaging across
the the time that we've been uh in this
cycle productivity growth is 2.2%.
relative to the the Great Recession
cycle all the way through its expansion
that was 1.5%. 3/4 percentage point
increase in productivity growth is
enormous because it adds up over time.
These are growth rates on average and so
now that puts us something close to
historical averages that a little above
2% so these aren't like you know
outsized numbers but like this is really
important and I think the the
improvement in productivity you can see
signs of it throughout this cycle. It's
not just about the last year when we're
building AI data centers, right? So that
is in the mix, but there has been a much
stronger recovery and more in business
investment and I think we saw a lot of
movement in the labor market getting
people matched up with better jobs that
we have workers that are more
productive. So there was a lot going on
and there's much to piece out of that,
but it's that is really important to see
that those productivity numbers have
been up over the past several years.
>> Claudia, it's always good to catch up
with you and get some clarity on where
we're going. Claudia Sam there of New
Century Advisers on the data what it
means for the Fed and the energy shock
developing before our eyes. New numbers
on the screen 89 on Bren 86 on WTI
crossing those levels just moments ago
and this market at the mercy of this
move in crude right now.
>> Yeah, ultimately they're looking for an
offramp. Not only are they not finding
one, but the obstacles to reopening some
of the supply are increasingly getting
large. The idea of refineries getting
hit, the idea of oil tankers potentially
being attacked, the idea of a question
of storage being filled up so people
shut off production as you mentioned. We
saw that in Iraq. All of those really
adding to the gain that already has been
the biggest for a week going back to
2022.
>> The good news is the data is okay. It'd
be a whole lot worse if it wasn't. The
bad news is we have some credit jitters
as well that we have to keep on
tracking. Where's the offset going to
come from if that move of energy keeps
sparking a tightening of financial
conditions? How much do we need an
easing in financial conditions to allow
the credit wheel to [music] keep fueling
some of the good that we've seen in the
economy?
>> Crude up by 6%. Up next, Prima Misra of
JP Morgan, the Republican Congressman
French Hill, Fed Governor Chris Waller,
and the EU energy commissioner Dan
Jorgensson. That conversation up next,
the second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around [music] the
corner.
We need be focusing on jobs and economic
growth.
>> What is happening in the labor market is
not entirely a cyclical story.
>> I think it's only important now in the
context of it creating a really big
surprise.
>> I'm increasingly concerned about [music]
the income shock that is coming through
to the economy.
>> We're just kind of waiting on
circumstances right now to see where we
go. This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Ann Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now.
Your price action looks like this.
Session lows for equities on the S&P at
the moment down by 6 on the NASDAQ down
by 7. Session highs for crude. Check out
commodities Brent and WTI. Brent crude
through 89. WTI approaching 86. Yeah, a
real question about a whether there is
an off-ramp, b how much supplies is
getting shut down right now as you see
storage facilities getting filled up as
you get more threats to potential oil
tankers going through the straight of
Hermuz. Guess what? There are none. And
as you get even refineries that are
coming into harm's way, all of this
coming to a confluence of events where
suddenly people are trying to game out
what this looks like if it goes out two
weeks, 3 [music] weeks, four weeks and
suddenly five weeks starts looking like
a lifetime. That really changes the
game.
>> What's the offset? What's the plan
coming from the White House, the
administration? [music] And we've had
some vague details about providing
insurance, providing escorts through the
straight. Not seeing any evidence of
that right now. And then this on Russia
from the Treasury Secretary to enable
crude to keep flowing into the global
market. The Treasury Department is
issuing a temporary 30-day waiver to
allow refiners in India to purchase
Russian crude. It shows that the
administration [music] is concerned
about oil prices and is looking at all
levers including those that are
unpalatable considering the sanctions
currently on Russian crude and the
effort to bring Russia Ukraine to some
sort of head and resolution. So you do
see the White House and we're expecting
some sort of announcement from the
Treasury. Other things that have been
flirted [music] with is potentially
trading oil futures. Uh but people have
sort of shut that down as being
relatively [music] ineffective. You've
seen other places like Turkey use 15% of
their reserves to support their currency
as it has been selling off in dramatic
fashion. So a real question is how you
mitigate really violent moves as a lot
of people get caught off sides.
>> So how much time do we have? How much
longer before it gets a whole lot worse?
I mentioned this from JP Morgan's
Natasha Canava. If remains effectively
closed, supply losses would accelerate
from here. So here are the numbers. By
day eight, we project roughly 3.3
[music] million barrels per day of
shutins, rising to almost four around
day 15 and close to five by day 18.
things start to get worse very quickly
>> which is the reason why I was really
struck by cutter energy minister uh
speaking in the financial times saying
that a production in cutter will not
restart unless there is a complete
sessation of violence [music] and then
going on to say guess what this goes on
a couple of weeks and we're talking $150
a barrel and we're talking about a real
hitch to the global economy [music] is
this a trying an effort to push some
resolution and say hey guess what
there's a lot at stake and it's your
neck [music] too or is Is this an actual
projection of what they foresee in a
nation very much tied to the energy
complex?
>> We've got a payroll report to talk about
later. Not really been talking about it.
March 8:30 Eastern time. Jobs drop.
We're looking for a number around 55K
[music] in our survey. Does this shock
weigh on output or fuel inflation?
That's the debate in economic circles at
the moment.
>> If the economy is doing okay, [music]
which a lot of people say it absolutely
is. If the employment market is holding
in and even if people are seeing signs
of recovery, well, guess what? This is
actually inflationary more so than
deflationary because you have people who
can actually go out and to continue to
consume at least in the short run. If
you have an economy falling off a cliff,
well, that is a very different reaction
function to higher oil prices. And oh,
by the way, it undermines the bullcase
for risk assets even in the face of oil
prices rising [music] simply because
people keep saying, well, otherwise the
economy is pretty good.
>> Sounds dramatic. It is. Yet stocks are
still just a few percentage points away
from all-time highs and futures this
morning only down by 0.6%. [music]
Coming up, we'll catch up with Pri Miser
of JP Morgan as crude oil is making new
highs. We'll catch up with the
Republican Congressman French Hill as
President Trump calls on Iran to lay
down arms and the Fed Governor Chris
Waller as we wait for a fresh read on
the labor market. We begin this hour
with stocks slipping as oil head for its
biggest weekly surge since 2022. Pria
Misra of JP Morgan writing, "Overall
pricing suggests a shortlived war. So
the longer it lasts, the more vulnerable
markets and the economy are." Pria joins
us now for more. Pria, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> How do you price an energy shock in the
bond market?
>> So, so far what the market's done is
those uh front dated tips break evens
have gone up, but you look at further
out, the market's essentially saying
this is very shortlived next few months
um you know, maybe headline CPI picks
up, but that's it. And so what the
market's done is it's taken out imminent
rate cuts. We still have some rate cuts,
but I would also look globally. I mean,
all year the market has been driven by
what's happening globally. European
rates, we've gone from pricing in rate
cuts to rate hikes. So, I would say that
the the crowded positioning in a lot of
these rate trades, I think that's
responsible for the move. I mean, if
this lasts longer, I worry about the
nonlinear impacts. Certainly on
inflation, I feel like all week we've
talked about inflation. There's a growth
nonlinear impact as well because look at
the consumer. The consumer savings rate
has been declining. We're still dealing
with the tariff shock. Now you have this
additional shock. It's going to hit real
disposable income and if the consumer
starts to crack, I think all bets are
off in not just the fixed income market,
but say even in the equity broader risk
center.
>> So I've got to ask you the direct
question. Tenzer at 417 given what you
just said. Is that a buy or sell?
>> I would be leaning towards buying. Uh
but you know I think if we think about
the fair value of the 10 year 375 four
and a quarter we're not at the upper
end. Have all of these consensus trades
been washed out? Not clear. I mean,
we're still seeing pretty big moves. The
steepener was very popular. Swap spreads
were popular. Owning duration as a
hedge. I think the last time I was here,
I was talking about if you we like risk
assets, we like owning duration. Well,
that was working. It was very popular.
Um, so I think there may be still some
of that flush out. You get to four and a
quarter, you get a little higher. I
think it's a buy because the way as if
rates are rising to that level that
means the market's repricing the
severity of the shock as well as the
duration that starts to rise. I think
the stagflationary shock that this
imposes the uncertainty shock starts to
weigh on growth and I think that's when
it's a buy. I still think duration will
be the hedge. I think we may have gotten
too far last week. It was all about
credit. I mean, we haven't been talking
about the AI disruption, credit
cockroaches, but I think duration was
acting as a hedge there. We might have
gotten a little bit too low in terms of
the tenure. I think this is a some of it
was a healthy repricing back, but you
get a little 10 base points higher. I
think we'd be in buying.
>> Before you decide whether to buy or sit
back, a big question is why has the
10-year traded the way that it has? Is
it because of long-term inflation
expectations? Because you don't see the
parallel in break even rates or is it
technical? sell what you can as you see
margin calls getting called all over the
place.
>> Great question. I think this is a VAR
shock. I think the fact that people want
to derisk we know duration is a risk
factor. So if I want to reduce all risk
and it's sometimes you can't don't can't
sell what you want to but you sell what
you can. So I think there's some element
of that margin calls and sort of an
unwind of consensus trades. Was only
duration a bit of a consensus trade
because it was working as a great hedge
if inflation if the underlying inflation
dynamics were heading lower. I mean I
know PCE is at three but look at the
underlying wages are not accelerating
shelter inflation's coming down. So I
think I would put a lot more weight on
the technicals particularly further out
the curve. Those break evens have gone
up in the front end. Does this keep the
Fed on hold a little bit longer?
Possibly. I think the Fed will want to
see macro data. They'll want to look at
the employment side. We do have payrolls
coming up. So, uh, but, you know, so I
think the front end move has some
inflation pricing. The long end, I
think, is largely a technical move,
global, you know, global rates, uh,
included.
>> I mean, I'm trying to understand some of
these moves, and some of them defy
logic. People looking for havens and
selling gold and silver, right? It kind
of speaks to what you're talking about.
We had sir Kaiser from city on earlier
and he was saying that this non-farm
payrolls report the hope is for it to be
a non-event. The hope for is it for it
to be just good enough to kind of not
change the underlying backstory for uh
the US economy and the labor market. Do
you have a sense of how offsides this
market is? Say if it comes in below
expectations or even say if it comes in
screamingly above.
>> I think screamingly above we'll go back
to looking at oil and we'll be looking
for what are these offramps. If it's
regime change, I really worry that we
don't have an offramp. Um, so I think it
is asymmetric for the bond market and
for the risk market. If it's weaker now,
we should what is what does weak mean?
You know, I think there's the strike
impact, there's the weather impact. So,
I don't know if it's just payrolls, but
if the unemployment rate goes up, you
have a really like zero payroll, a high
unemployment uh rate, I think the market
starts to question not just I mean, you
look at overall market pricing,
short-term war, and the economy is
fundamentally sound. If we start
questioning both of these, we talked a
lot about the duration part, but if you
start to question is that AI disruption
here. I mean, we had questions on
productivity. I I love that you asked
Claudia Sam this question because I
don't think this productivity increases
all AI, but the market it's at the back
of everyone's mind that is that labor
disruption about to happen. We get a
weak number and I would look at the
number. I would also look at revisions
because I think what gave the market a
lot of comfort was the last strong
payroll report that gets revised lower.
I think you have to question maybe the
fundamentals are not that sound and so
you know do I want to continue to pay
back risk not just because of the oil
shock but that fundamental resilience of
the labor market which feeds through
into consumer spending. If I start to
question that I think that you know the
risk complex will react a lot more and
rates that are obsessing about inflation
will start to worry about the growth
side. It would be an absolute nightmare
for this Federal Reserve if at the same
time, simultaneously, we find out that
the firmness in the labor market at the
start of the year was a head fake whilst
we're experiencing a supply shock in the
Middle East for energy. What do they do
with that? That's a big problem for any
monetary policy official anywhere.
>> It has a word that is the nightmare for
all central bankers. It is stiflation.
And that is what everybody wants to
avoid. And right now really very few
people are projecting because of the
strength in that January payroll. So
that's the reason why revisions are
going to be so important.
>> Let's hope we can avoid it. Pria, it's
always good to see you. Thanks for being
here. Pri Miser there of JP Morgan Asset
Management on the payrolls report 1 hour
and 20 minutes away. A programming note,
we will catch up with the Fed Governor
Chris Waller in about 20 minutes time.
So look out for that conversation. An
update on financial markets, equity
futures at the moment on the S&P near
session lows down by 0.6%. crude near
session highs at the moment 8944
on Bren WTI through 86 with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yahara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Iran fired a barrage of
missiles and drones targeting countries
across the Persian Gulf overnight
including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and
Bahrain. Meanwhile, Israel renewed its
own air strikes hitting Thrron and
Beirut. Fears of a protracted war around
the strategic [music] straight of
hormuse are roing markets with crude
headed for its biggest weekly surge
since 2022. [music]
Meanwhile, the US has issued a temporary
waiver to allow Indian refiners to
purchase Russian oil in an effort to
ease pressure on supplies amid the
conflict in the Persian Gulf. The
waiver, which expires April 4th, covers
transactions [music]
related to Russian crude oil and
petroleum products loaded onto vessels
before March 5th. And the US Commerce
Department is considering restricting AI
chip shipments to [music] anywhere in
the world without American approval. The
proposed rule would impact imports from
chip makers like Nvidia and AMD, setting
up the US government as the gatekeeper
for the AI industry. That's your [music]
brief, John.
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yhira later
this hour. Up next on a program seeking
surrender.
>> I'm once again calling on all members of
the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, the
military and the police to lay down
their arms. But they're tough and they
[music] want to fight and uh they're
calling. They're saying, "How do we make
a deal?" They said, "You're being a
little bit late."
>> The Republican Congressman French Hill
joins us next live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. The price
action set up as follows on this payroll
Friday. Equity futures declining by 0.6.
The NASDAQ down by.7 in the commodity
market new highs for Brent and WTI.
Brent crude approaching 90 8940 and up
by close to 5% on the session.
>> You have shippers Marisk in particular
suspending shipments through the region.
You have questions around ships that
aren't even in the street of Ramuz
whether they could potentially be
targeted. And you have the spectre of
production being shut down because of a
lack of storage capacity. [music] All of
this coming together as each day ticks
on as people try to imagine what can be
the offramp that can get some sort of
resolution and get petroleum [music] uh
flowing once again.
>> And Sylvanas this morning seeking
surrender.
>> I'm once again calling on all members of
the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, the
military and the police to lay down
their arms. They're only going to be
killed. Their communications are gone.
Missiles are gone. I said, "What's
left?" But they're tough and they want
to fight and uh they're calling. They're
saying, "How do we make a deal?" They
said, "You're being a little bit late.
We want to fight now more than they do."
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president urging Iran to stand [music]
down as the Middle East conflict rages
into a sixth day. Thran claiming it's
confident it could counter a ground
invasion and the US president telling
Axios he must be involved in selecting
Iran's next leader. Back with us, Jeff
Mason, out of Washington. Jeff, welcome
back to the program. the words of the
Treasury Secretary overnight. To enable
oil to keep flowing into the global
market, the Treasury Department is
issuing a temporary 30-day waiver to
allow Indian refiners to purchase
Russian crude. Is the administration
beginning to compromise foreign policy
objectives elsewhere?
>> Well, they're certainly taking all the
steps that they can right now to keep
oil prices from going up high. But let's
do just a or higher, I should say. Let's
do a little bit of a fact check. The
president said yesterday in that clip
that oil prices were stabilizing. That's
not true. Uh the president also said
that you were just talking about what's
going on in Iran in terms of encouraging
people to lay down their arms. Well,
there's no evidence that there are talks
right now between the United States and
Iran. So, we'll see. But to to in terms
of the Treasury Secretary, they're
they're looking they're looking for
every option they can to keep gasoline
prices from going up. Jeeoff, I'd love
your judgment and your observation of
how this is playing out at the moment.
Do you think that financial markets,
equities specifically, are
underestimating the president's desire
to follow through regardless of what
happens with gas prices?
>> I think the evidence shows that the
president right now cares about success
in Iran. It's on his list of things to
do, just like he's got a list of things
to domestically. Obviously, he takes
into account the politics. He takes into
account the economy. He has responded
before to the market having sort of a
check on him. But yeah, I mean I think
equity markets need to take into account
that this is a president on a mission
and Iran is on that mission.
>> Jeff, appreciate your time. Thanks for
this morning. Jeff Mason there of
Bloomberg down in Washington DC. Jeff's
point there is so so important.
Financial markets have been conditioned,
investors have been conditioned for the
president to step down, back away when
the market pushes back. Is it different
this time?
>> If this is a legacy play, maybe it is.
Right. Right. I mean, if this is trying
to bring around regime change in some
capacity, which there have been mixed
messages on, well, then maybe he's not
going to stop until it is done. Right
now, it doesn't seem like the rise that
we've seen in gas prices at the pump,
which have reach reached the highest
since 2024. It doesn't seem like that is
creating any offramps that are
foreseeable, at least right now, for
markets.
>> Let's extend the conversation. A good
friend of this program over the years,
the Republican Congressman French Hill,
joined us now for more. Congressman
Hill, welcome back to the program. Are
you satisfied with the rationale for
this operation in Iran?
>> Well, Jonathan, it's good to be with
you. Uh, yes, I am. I mean, this has
been 50 years of counting American
bodies uh that caused at the hands of
the IRGC, the Cuds force, Iranian IEDs.
Uh this has been a onstanding
long-standing
uh grayzone war between Iran and the
West for all these years and the
president set out the goal of they will
not obtain a nuclear weapon. And we have
not been successful in four different
presidential administrations of
achieving that through negotiation. And
the Israelis are concerned with the
advancing ballistic missile development
technology, technology sharing by Iran,
plus the continued dedication to
producing a nuclear weapon. Uh that that
risk in the region had reached a
breaking point.
>> There is, as you know, Congressman, a
domestic price to pay in more ways than
one. Unfortunately, for this
conversation, we're going to focus on
the market aspect. There are much more
important issues at play as well. Gas
prices are climbing. What's your
assessment of the disruption to energy
flows one and two? The kind of remedies
that the US government can offer right
now?
>> Well, I think some of the remedies are
you've heard Treasury Secretary Bessant
talk about uh supporting the insurance
markets. Of course, the United States
Navy is going to do their part to
support transit of the Strait of
Harmoose, which benefits uh everyone in
the markets. But as you pointed out in
your reporting, you've just got a uh
risk at the margin of Iran striking a
production facility or a transit ship.
And so that has really chilled the oil
transit market in the Gulf. I think this
is temporary. I think it's going to be
handled over the next few weeks. I don't
think it's going to have a permanent
impact on the oil markets. If you think
about uh Iran's contribution to oil
production, uh 80% of it's been sold to
China. And during the first Trump
administration, it was completely shut
down in terms of production due to then
maximum pressure sanction campaign that
was undone by the Biden administration
with Biden letting them back into the
oil markets and back into the financial
markets and freeing up a bunch of frozen
assets. So, I think this uh I don't
believe will have a lasting effect on
markets, but certainly has an important
short-term effect as we're seeing in in
oil markets and in the insurance
markets.
>> Congressman, would you support measures
like using and tapping the SPR, the
strategic petroleum reserve to try to
mitigate some of the price increases
even in the short term that people are
already feeling when they go fill up
their cars?
Well, I think that's a decision the
Treasury Secretary and the cabinet needs
to make. If they think that's in the in
the right uh reason, then I certainly
would uh urge them to consider it. We
experienced that with Joe Biden during
the Russia invasion of Ukraine. And it
was microscopic. The actual uh hit, I
mean, the cents per barrel from an
strategic petroleum reserve release are
not that measurable. So if the if the
whole uh production and distribution of
oil were disrupted then that might make
a bigger contribution but we saw even in
the Russian case that that was not uh
worth in my judgment draining the
strategic petroleum reserve which Joe
Biden did. As you know Europe pivoted
and the Gulf pivoted and the sources of
both oil and gas quickly replumbed
their distribution to benefit Europe
after that invasion. So, I think that
was a premature decision by Joe Biden.
>> Congressman, there also are some
strategic questions that the Congress
has to face, including how to prepare
the United States better and frankly
restock some of the munitions that are
being depleted. There's a $50 billion
bill currently in your hands, in your
house, and I'm just wondering, would you
support an additional funding measure to
try to help stockpile uh some additional
supplies should this be a prolonged
conflict? and if there are any
additional conflicts in the future.
>> Well, there was a significant uh work on
that in the big beautiful bill last
summer. There was $9 billion
allocated to the Pentagon to
specifically uh work on the munition
supply chain. We've certainly seen that
taken to action in Arkansas in Camden,
Arkansas, where we've seen a significant
increase in munitions uh and rocket
engine uh production because of the
Pentagon's focus on supply chain. Plus,
yesterday we just marked up in the House
Financial Services Committee the
reauthorization and modernization of the
Defense Production Act, which
specifically focused on uh obviously DoD
production, but also the medical supply
chain and the critical mineral supply
chain. We think that's a good bill. It
came out of committee 41 to zero. So,
it's a strong bipartisan bill and we're
working with the administration on that.
Uh but both the Armed Services
Committees uh and the Defense Production
Act, the Treasury are all working on
that munition supply chain. But with all
that said and the money that we've
already set aside in the big beautiful
bill, I think if uh if military
operations continue in the Gulf, I think
the Congress will be confronted with a
supplemental appropriation to support
that effort.
>> Congressman, you are the chair of the H
financial Services Committee. Of course,
now would be a good time to hear from
Chairman Pal. Are there any plans to
have that semiannual testimony anytime
soon?
>> You bet. We have We have invited him.
We're trying to find a date and
coordinate that date with the Senate
Banking Committee because we typically
do those uh hearings backtoback. So, I
hope that that can happen soon.
>> Are you hopeful that that happens this
month?
>> I hope it happens soon.
>> I'll leave it there. Congressman, thank
you. The Republican Congressman French
Hill there hoping that happens soon.
We're still waiting. Yeah, we're still
waiting to understand exactly when that
Hawkins uh testimony really comes to
pass and a real question around what
kind of clout uh Fed chair J Pal will
have in discussing discussing the rate
path ahead when there are questions
about who's going to replace him or we
know who maybe when and whether he will
stay on
>> park the politics. Let's just get rid of
the politics for a moment. There are
serious things happening in financial
markets right now specifically private
markets. There's a lot of institutions
throwing shade at each other at the
moment and a lot of confusion about
what's happening. Clearly, redemptions
are accelerating and certain companies
are finding different ways to meet them.
But I think there's a lot of questions
to be asked of that whole industry at
the moment that the chairman of the
House Financial Service Committee and
the chairman of the Federal Reserve
needs to get across them pretty quickly.
>> How how much stress do they need to see
before they need to take action in some
capacity, right? I mean, this is sort of
uh the ultimate question. At what point
are private credit stressors systemic?
And this is something that people can't
really answer right now because we don't
have full transparency over the nodes of
contagion. And private markets aren't
totally isolated. They're also connected
to public markets. They're [music] also
connected to the banking channels that
have credit credit lines out to a lot of
these private assets.
>> They've been a driving force of the US
economy for a number of years now. Are
we seeing a tighten of financial
conditions that we can't really see and
have limited visibility on? And that's
[music] my question at the moment. Up
next, we'll ask that question of the Fed
Governor Chris Waller as Wall Street
awaits fresh payrolls data and some
reaction from this Fed on the disruption
in the Middle East, crude [music] and
multi-year highs. From New York, this is
Bloomberg.
>> Governor Chris Waller just moments away.
Mike McKe dropping by to catch up with
us as well. Looking forward to this
conversation in just a moment. [music]
The price action at the moment looks
like this and is shaping up as follows.
60 minutes out from a payrolls report 2
minutes out from the open and bound
session lows down by 0.6 on the S&P on
the NASDAQ down by 0.8. These moves
dictated and at the mercy of what
happens here. This move in crude WTI and
Brent new highs for the year new highs
for the session. 8914 on Brent. WTI
briefly through 86 8597.
Crude's up by 6%. [music]
is dragging yields higher for a fifth
consecutive session on a 10-year
maturity. Yields up across the curve
this morning. 10's Lisa approaching 420.
>> Right now, the market is treating this
as an inflationary uh impulse leading to
questions about how much the Fed can cut
rates in the very near term given the
fact that we're already coming off an
inflation level that is higher than that
2% target.
>> At the front end of the curve as well,
yield time by five basis points, 363 so
far this morning. Let's get you some
single names, some morning movers.
Joining us now for more, Yahara. Hey,
Yahara. Hi John. Given your oil market
check, it is no surprise we are seeing
the US oil majors gaining this morning.
Both Chevron and Exxon up 1.6% and the
small driller driller out of West Texas
Battalion up 33% [music] as they track
this spike in oil prices. And it seems
like investors have started to price in
more risk due to headlines overnight,
including this one from Qatar's energy
minister, uh, issuing a stark [music]
warning, predicting that all Gulf energy
exporters would shut down production
within weeks if this [music] conflict
continues. Uh, moving on to the chip
makers, uh, both Nvidia and AMD lower in
the pre-market on our reporting that the
US could dramatically tighten its grip
when [music] it comes to AI chip
exports. We're reporting that officials
at the Commerce Department have drafted
rules that would require companies to
seek US approval for any chips they ship
outside the US. And we end on another
chipmaker having a better morning and
that is Marvel Technology. Shares are up
uh 11 and a quarter% after it raised its
outlook [music] due to stronger than
expected growth in its data center
business. John,
>> hey yara, thank you. More from later
this hour on our radar this morning.
Maritime traffic in the straight of
grinding to a near complete halt with no
crude shipments passing in the past 24
hours. The escalating conflict in the
region prompting dozens of oil and gas
tankers to stay within the Persian Gulf.
Elsewhere, Qatar's energy minister
warning that war could quote bring down
the economies of the world. The minister
telling the Financial Times all Gulf
energy exporters could shut down
production within weeks, driving crude
to 150 a barrel. and crude is pushing
higher as the Trump administration
weighs options to curb the spike in oil
and gas.
>> Yesterday, my administration announced
decisive action to help keep down the
oil prices, including offering political
risk insurance for tankers
transiting into the Gulf, as you know,
pretty dangerous territory.
Further action to reduce pressure on oil
is eminent and the oil seems to have
pretty much stabilized.
>> No sound of stability this morning.
Potential options include releasing
crude from the strategic petroleum
reserve and waiverss of fuel blending
requirements.
>> Yeah, and we're expecting uh commentary
at any point from Doug Bergam, the
Secretary of the Interior about what
some of the processes could look like. A
real question though around what's going
to be effective enough to really justify
uh the potential risks and we hear that
being played out. the idea that they
could target oil futures definitely
getting a lot of push back from people
saying really you're going to try that
well I think you got a pretty big ground
swell against you
>> the US energy secretary Chris Wright
speaking to the American media at the
moment I keep bringing these headlines
ultimately saying that this could last
weeks and not months that's the hope but
nobody really has any idea and that's
all connected to how things play out in
the Middle East right now and that's not
just in US hands that's in Iranian hands
and their neighbors hands as well
>> it's not just a question of weeks or
months though and I think this is where
it gets really interesting. Each day
matters. This is what people keep
talking about. It prolongs how long you
can get some of the supply back on and
it creates a very big backlog. If it
goes on for 3 weeks, that matters.
Whether it goes on from four weeks and I
think that that's what a lot of analysts
are talking about.
>> Let's keep it on energy. Rising crude
adding to inflation fears potentially
for the Federal Reserve. Retail gasoline
prices in the United States reaching
their highest levels in 18 months. The
surge in energy costs coming ahead of
fresh reads on the economy with payroll
data due at 8:30 Eastern time. Joining
us around the table, I'm pleased to say
here in New York, the Fed Governor Chris
Waller. Governor Waller, good to see
you, sir.
>> Good to see you all again.
>> When we planned this, I thought you'd
come in and talk about the labor market,
but [laughter] something else has taken
over. What's your assessment of
developments in the Middle East and
ultimately what it means for you and the
committee?
>> Yeah, I mean, I guess it's exactly the
thing is what you're going to see is
you're going to see a spike in gasoline
prices. That's what the American
citizens are going to see when they go
to the pump and they're going to stare
at it and be a little shocked in terms
of how things go. But for us, thinking
about policy going forward, this is
unlikely to cause sustained inflation.
This is one reason we don't look at
energy prices when we look at core. Core
is a better predictor of future
inflation. You're going to see this, but
once these kind of supply chain issues
that you laid out, Lisa, once they
unravel, this will start coming back
down. So it's kind of very odd to think
about the Fed maybe changing rates 6
months from now based on this if it's
unwound in a like as you said Jonathan
in a couple of weeks or even two months
it's not going to be a big factor down
the road. So this is why we never look
at energy prices. They bounce up, they
come back down. It's not that it's
something that we we don't feel sympathy
for people that that's what they have to
pay when they put gas in their cars. But
for us thinking about the longer term in
terms of policy, this is something we're
just going to have to kind of put off
for now.
>> When does it become something bigger? If
it's so
>> it becomes bigger, if it becomes more
permanent because then what's going to
happen? You're going to see this jump in
prices. Then it'll start bleeding
through to other parts of the the
economy. Energy is a big part. it feeds
into everything else and then somehow
those energy costs get passed along like
everything else. That's what you're more
worried about.
>> Economists on any given day, Lisa, Mike,
myself, and they'll talk about the
experience of the 70s and coming out of
the pandemic and they'll say things like
that officials of the Federal Reserve
are somewhat conditioned, scarred by
some of that. Is that your experience of
things?
>> Well, in the 70s, remember, we didn't
just have one. We had massive oil
shocks. If you take 73, the price of oil
quadrupled overnight. It went from $4 a
barrel to $12 a barrel or three or went
from three to whatever the numbers were.
But that was a shock and it never came
back down. And then there was another
one. Every time you turned around there
was another oil shock. Then I ran oil
embargo in 79. So that was kind of the
problem with the oil shocks. They just
kept coming and coming and coming. So
it's not clear this will be one shock
after another after another. So that's
why I'm more willing to say this is I
hate to say it, but more like a one-off
event than what we saw in the 1970s.
Well, as uh Rosen Rosanna Dana used to
say, it's always something because if
it's not just [laughter] it's not just
the oil shocks, it's the whole idea now
we're going to have a whole new round of
tariffs coming through the economy. Uh
and we've got this low fire low hire
economy. How long do you think that
continues? Are does this just push out
the time period for companies to sit on
their hands, not invest because they
don't know what's going to happen? Yeah,
I mean this is one of the things I've
been concerned about since last June is
how weak the labor market has been.
There were a lot of factors last summer
that were driving this kind of low,
higher, low fire. It looked like maybe
in January we might be turning a corner.
We'll find out today whether that was,
as I said last week, signal or noise. Um
but you know, when you're in this world
in which the labor market, even with
130,000 jobs, it was really
concentrating in a couple of sectors.
80% of the economy, the labor market
wasn't doing anything. It was zero to
negative. So that kind of fragility
wouldn't take much for some sort of a
serious shock to sort of start pushing
people in ser uh another direction.
Whether this is that kind of shock or
not, we'll start finding out.
>> Yeah, it's early because of course this
is these are going to be January
numbers, but you've been on record as
saying you'd like to cut more because
you're still worried about where the
labor market is.
What would it take to get you to back
off on that feeling? Because the if we
get the same sort of numbers we had in
December, it still shows very narrow
breath of hiring and it still shows some
reasonably good numbers for hiring.
>> Yeah, the even with the January report
um it like I said it was all
concentrated in a couple of sectors. So
that was good. They were robust. We got
a big number well above everybody's
estimate of break even. But the
concentration didn't give me a lot of
comfort that the economy as a whole was
doing really well. So that's where it,
you know, my brain is telling me the
number was good and the economy looks
okay. It was above break even, but my
guts are telling me it may not be that
good. And that's where I'm waiting to
see what today's number is. I'm almost
certain it's going to get revised down
because they have this has been a
pattern in January the last few years.
>> Can we pair these two ideas? the idea of
the oil shock that's creating some
concerns about inflation and then a
labor market that kind of is in
question, right? Is it decelerating or
is it reacelerating?
How much has your reaction changed
potentially to uh Friday's to today's
report given the fact that we do see
energy prices pushing on inflation? In
other words, would you be less inclined
to cut rates if there is strength that's
demonstrated in the labor market today?
Yeah, I that's kind of what I was
hinting at last week that if we get
another solid jobs report than last
month, this month
looks like the labor market's turning
around. A lot of the downside risk I've
been worried about for 6 months is kind
of going away. We got a hot we're going
to get a hot PCE number given what we
already have seen coming in. That's
going to probably print from everything
I've seen uh about a point4.
Okay. Usually that comes down again.
We've had this January effect. we have
some more passroughs of tariffs, but
because the inflation's hot, it's going
to look even worse now with the oil
prices at least on headline. And then if
you get a solid job number, it does say
there's you can sit there and wait.
>> Let's say the counterfactual. Let's say
we don't get a good print. Let's say we
see the weakness that you see right now
when you talk to people in your district
and be or that you speak to in the
different districts as well as beyond.
How much do you think the Fed should
react to this? because it's sort of the
dual mandate is in conflict in
absolutely the wrong way.
>> Yeah. I mean that's the tension we've
had for the last years. Uh I've been
more worried about the labor market
risk, the inflation risk. I've always
believed inflation was going to come
back down once tariff effects passed
through. My other colleagues on the
committee are much more concerned about
the inflation. It's been high for 5
years. They're not seeing it coming down
and they think the labor market is all
stabilized. It's all supply side. So
these are the two different views that
people have about thinking about policy.
And I was more willing to cut rates
because I was more worried about the
labor market, not as worried about
inflation coming down. But like I said,
if the labor market continues to go
weak, if this thing comes in, I mean,
ADP was promising the other day. So if
the labor market is good, inflation's
hotter than we think, it's fine to kind
of wait another meeting and kind of see.
But if we get a bad number or January's
revised down to some really low number
like ADP got revised in half, life marks
just not that good. And so the question
is why are you just sitting on your
hands? So I could certainly see this
meeting going other way depending on the
data this week and the CPI next week
comes in.
>> I hate to be the one to ask this
question, but what's a good report?
Because at 8:30 Eastern time, we'll all
be asking that question of ourselves.
What's good to you? What does good look
like?
>> Well, I think good would be if you saw
another number like January, that would
be really good because you're well above
everybody's break even estimates at that
point. And that'd be two in a row. Looks
like it's going through. We got very
good numbers off the ISM manufacturing
and services this week. That's another
indication that maybe things are turning
around. So if that's the case, I'm
starting to see less downside risk. Now
on the tariff stuff, I still have a view
that all the tariff risk is to the
downside.
I just don't see big increases in
tariffs spread all over the place. If
anything, they're going to come down.
Estimates of this are coming down. Deals
are going to potentially get made. So I
don't see a lot of tear risk going even
though there's more uncertainty there's
always the uncertainty. I don't see a
lot of price pressures from what we
think could happen going forward. So
that's going to bring I think that's
going to bring inflation down or take
pressure off and it'll take some of the
uncertainty off at some point.
>> Well, it becomes a question of what
problem are you trying to solve and what
tool are you using to do it. How would
cutting rates by 25 or 50 basis points
help the labor market if companies are
sitting on their hands because they're
still waiting for tariff news and we've
got a war going on?
>> Yeah. I mean, we can always say, "Ah, we
can't do anything. Just sit there."
That's not my job. My job is try to help
the economy and achieve our dual
mandate. And if the labor market's not
looking good, then I have to make this
trade-off.
>> But does does it make a difference to
the CEOs?
>> Well, maybe not. I mean, that's what I'm
saying. We could argue about whether
monetary policy has any effect in
general on the labor market. There's a,
you know, you go back in economics back
to the 80s and 90s, there's a whole camp
of people that said monetary policy is
completely irrelevant for the economy.
So, quit wasting your time.
>> You're opening up a very different
conversation.
>> Yeah, that's a whole different we could
spend a long time on. I wanted to
squeeze this in. I actually think it's
one of the more important topics at the
moment. We're not seeing a tightening of
financial conditions, a material one, in
public markets. I don't see that in
stocks. I don't see that in bond yields.
I'm wondering what on earth you see in
private markets because every day
there's another headline about another
fund, another company struggling to meet
redemptions. What is the Federal Reserve
assessment of what is happening? Because
that has powered this economy. Some
people might say in a bigger way than
the Federal Reserve or for that matter
public markets have. What is going on?
>> Well, there's a couple things. I mean,
in general, I'm not I don't see big
really big widespread problems in the
private credit market. What you're
seeing is a couple cases of certainly
fraud. Is that fraud widespread? I don't
you know,
it's hard to believe that the entire
private credit market is being driven by
fraud or bubble posting of collateral.
So, these are kind of these one-off
things that get a lot of headlines, but
it's not clear it's systemic. You have
to kind of look at whether they're a lot
of um you know, there's different types
of private credit. There's stuff that's
in high yield, you know, risky junk bond
stuff, and there's other stuff that's
better quality in terms of what they're
funding. So, I don't think as a whole
the private credit market is is in any
serious trouble. But, you're going to
have these things popping up here and
there, but I don't think there's enough
of it that's going to somehow drive down
the financial markets and create any
kind of financial stability problems.
>> Governor, it's good to see you. Thanks
for making time for us to see you all.
>> Thank you, sir. Longer conversation
about your role
>> in the future. Looking forward to that,
Governor. Thank you. Federal Reserve
Governor Chris Waller there on the
economy, the shock in the Middle East
and on markets too. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloom brief. Here's Yahara
with more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. President Trump saying he needs
to be personally involved in picking
Iran's [music] next leader. Trump
reiterated that Motiva Kamune, the son
of the former Supreme Leader, is not an
acceptable choice despite him being
presented as a front [music] runner.
Trump also encouraged Iranian Kurdish
forces to go on the offensive.
In the meantime, shipping giants are
suspending container services around the
Persian Gulf as the Iran war presses on.
Merk is [music] cutting two of its key
services that connect the Middle East to
East Asia and Europe. While Hackpag
Lloyd also said it had suspended [music]
several services as trade flows face
major disruptions.
and Liberty Media. Formula 1 has seen
$1.9 billion dollars wiped off its
market value since the Iran war began
due to concerns [music] about its races
in the Middle East. The new F1 season
begins this weekend in Melbourne,
Australia, but uncertainty [music]
now surrounds two races next month that
are planned in Bahrain [music] and Saudi
Arabia. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
>> Yeah, Harra, thank you. I woke up this
morning and realized what I should have
known already. I've got to buy another
bloody subscription [music] and this
time it's Apple to watch Formula 1.
>> I'm so sorry. Do
>> you know how many I've got now just to
[music] watch the different I know you
follow the football too.
>> You need Peacock.
>> I know.
>> You need Apple.
>> I love this paramount.
>> Yeah. Well, no. At
>> the end of the season. Is that what you
do? It doesn't work.
>> Sign up again. That's my daughter.
>> Message to Apple and say stop raising
the prices because it's inflationary.
>> It's inflation.
>> Could you do that on our behalf?
>> Sure.
>> Thank you, [laughter] Governor. We
appreciate
>> But you know the best way to get those
prices to come back down is cancel when
you're done.
I just want to watch the sport and then
I forget and then they just
exactly that's the model. That's where
behavioral economics has.
>> I'm I'm a victim of it all. Up next on
the program, Europe's energy crunch.
>> If we are to have an increase of energy
prices by 10%, inflation would go up.
>> The duration of the war is the main
driver of the inflation outlook. Up
next, we'll catch up with the EU energy
commissioner Dan Jorgensson from New
York. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Once again, stocks as session lows.
Crude near session highs. Equities right
now negative.7 on the S&P down by 0.9 on
the NASDAQ. Crude shaping up as follows.
Bren NWTI Bren approaching 90 8940
this morning call it 8930 under
surveillance this morning Europe's
energy crunch
if we are to have an increase of energy
prices by 10% and that stays for some
time inflation would go up by 40 basis
points
>> the duration of the war is the main
driver of the inflation [music] outlook
We see a lot on the energy price front
and now it's the question how is that
maybe spilling over to the rest of the
economy. So here's the latest this
morning. The war in the Middle East
sending energy costs surging across the
globe. The price of crude sitting at a
multi-year high while European natural
gas is set for its biggest weekly gain
since the energy crisis of 2022. Joining
us now is the European Energy
Commissioner Dan Jorgensson.
Commissioner, welcome to the program.
Sir, what's your assessment of the
disruption to supply to Europe over the
past few days?
>> Well, first of all, it's important to
say that it's not actually so much the
disruption of supply that creates
problems because first of all, we don't
get any oil or gas from Iran directly
and and we get some limited uh amounts
of of gas from the Gulf region overall.
But that's not it's it's not nothing,
but it's not the big problem. The big
problem is the effects on the global
markets and of course those effects on
the global markets also hits consumers
in in Europe especially on oil and on
LG. So, Commissioner, do you see a
reason to try to step in and stave off
some of the increases in price or do you
think that this will rightsize itself
because ultimately the EU isn't as
dependent on uh Iran and and sort of
some of the regional supplies?
>> So, I I I saw earlier that you compared
this crisis to uh the crisis in 22 when
Russia uh started its full-scale
invasion uh in in Ukraine. And I
understand why because this is the worst
crisis we've had since. But it's also
important to say that we are we are not
close to the level of of crisis that we
have in 22. The prices are higher, yes,
but not close to as high as they were
there. So that's number one. Number two,
we are also much better situated to
dealing with these price increases. We
have a more diversified energy system,
meaning that for instance on gas, we get
the gas from more different sources. So
our number one source is Norway. Number
two is the US. Few years back that used
to be Russia. Now we've said we want to
stop the import from from Russia for
obvious reasons. Uh so this
diversification puts us in a in a better
place. Also we've reduced our
consumption of gas and we're deploying
more renewables every year. Uh this
means that we get cheaper energy. It
means that we get homegrown energy. Uh
and it of course uh also uh means that
uh we are in better control of our own
destiny in these uh areas than we were
before, but we are still exposed to the
global markets. So we don't take it
lightly.
>> Commissioner, have you had any
conversations with Chris Wright over in
the United States about potentially
increasing liqufied natural gas exports
to Europe in order to save off any
output from Qatar that is interrupted?
Yes, we have a continuous uh dialogue
across the Atlantic both with the
American administration but also of
course with the with the companies and
with the sector and uh we have to be uh
thankful that American companies have
been able to supply us with LG uh that
we've needed uh because we have decided
to uh to ban the import of Russian gas.
We we needed of course to ban this
import because we didn't want to
continue to indirectly help finance
Putin's war and of course also Putin has
weaponized energy uh against us and and
we could not accept that. So we needed
other sources and here the American gas
has been very welcome and uh the
projections uh also because of the the
the political talks that we've had and
what we've done to facilitate it the
projections are that that will also
increase in the future. Commissioner, on
Russian crude, the Treasury Department,
as you know, I'm sure you saw the news,
issued a temporary waiver to the Indian
refiners to purchase Russian crude.
What's your reaction to that given what
you just said?
>> For us, it's it's very clear we do not
uh wish to buy uh Russian energy. Uh we
have uh got a combination of sanctions
and also
>> Are you disappointed that the Americans
are allowing the Indians to buy that
crude?
That's not up for me to to comment on. I
can definitely say what what we want in
the European Union is to hit Russia as
hard as possible uh on their incomes
from energy. Russia
are they conducting a terrible brutal
war in Ukraine right now. We're talking
about energy. What they do, for
instance, is that they target the energy
infrastructure uh of Ukraine uh leaving
uh the Ukrainians to to freeze without
electricity in a very very cold winter.
And then when Ukrainians send people to
repair what's been destroyed, they bomb
and kill those people also. So for us,
this is a very serious matter and and we
we want to stop our imports completely
and we hope that others will will do the
same and follow this example.
Commissioner, appreciate your time. The
EU energy commissioner Dan Jorgensson
there on the situation. Shocking that
the Europeans are still purchasing any
Russian energy whatsoever.
>> Yeah, a question here about what the
interchange will be between the US and
Europe on this.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Nadia Levelville of UPS, Mike
Collins of PG, Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research, Jeff Rosenberg of Black
Rockck. Next hour, the payrolls report,
the jobs report 34 minutes away.
The sentiment clearly is anxietyridden.
>> We didn't call for some of the
geopolitical risk that we're seeing, but
we [music] expected it to start to
increase.
>> There is a risk that this goes on for
longer than what people are pricing in
today.
>> The picture right now is more nuanced
[music] than we're advocating for
hedges.
>> When we look out over the next two to,
you know, four to 6 months, we think
stocks [music] look very good. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Big hour coming up. The payrolls report
30 minutes away. Live from New York City
this morning. Good morning. [music] Good
morning from our audience worldwide. The
third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
starts right now. Your price action
scores look like this. Session lows on
the S&P negative by around [music] 6/10
of 1% down by about8% on the NASDAQ.
close to session highs in the commodity
market on crude WTI and on Bren Bren
crude earlier in the session we crossed
through 88 and had a little look at 90
[music]
>> markets are forward-looking instruments
and when you're in the oil market that
is very high task right now [music]
always is as you pointed out John but a
real question about how you price in oil
that potentially could be up to $130
$150 a barrel in the next three four
five weeks should this be prolonged how
do you price that in while searching
[music] for an off-ramp searching to
understand what the goals are and
searching for who even the leadership is
in Iran to negotiate. It is a difficult
thing to get any clarity on and that is
what we are all operating in right now.
>> Very vague talk about how you offset
this. The Treasury trading energy
[music] futures maybe doing something
with some kind of insurance framework
supporting vessels as they go through
the straight of the fact of the matter
is traffic through the straight [music]
right now is basically at zero and
that's what this market is responding
to. And frankly, all of those uh sort of
band-aids that people are talking about,
whether it's energy futures, whether
it's the SPR, or whether it's insurance,
[music]
are thought of as just that, band-aids.
And frankly, the market isn't taking
that all that seriously in terms of a
true off-ramp. The only thing that
actually will create [music] a sense of
confidence will be if the uh military
action stops and if oil [music] starts
traveling again. And until that
continues, there are big questions about
the ramifications for the underlying
economy.
>> The good news so far is the underlying
economy is okay. The data so [music] far
this week has been fairly decent. That's
the question mark at 8:30 Eastern time.
Do we get a repeat with the payrolls
report? The estimate in our survey here
at Bloomberg 55K. The previous number a
very strong 130. The good news for risk
is that the good data has been good
>> and that's the reason why there is an
asymmetry right now in markets. If you
get data that isn't [music] good and
people are saying that that would be a
rise in the unemployment rate, let alone
a headline figure that came in below
that 55,000 mark. If you do get a bad
number, whatever you define that as,
that could be a really negative impulse
for uh risk assets, considering that
that is what everyone keeps pointing to.
As long as this gets taken off the
table, get out of our way and this
economy will keep booming, that works as
long as this economy still has that
momentum.
>> We caught up with Governor Waller about
30 minutes ago and [music] the governor
of the Federal Reserve made the point
that yes, once again, it's a coin flip
as to whether they cut interest rates or
at least whether he votes for an
interest rate cut at the [music] next
meeting. what's a good number for him
that pushes this one way or the other
said a repeat of last month. So
something around 100k I guess would get
him to say you know what no change.
>> It's a pretty high bar and I think other
people might define it differently. What
[music] he also pointed to and this is
something that a lot of economists are
looking for the downward revisions. He
is expecting a downward revision to
January's 130,000. What does that look
like if you do get a downward revision
that is significant? Does that reshape
the entire landscape [music] or on the
converse if you don't and you do get a
solid number? How much do people say
look we got some juice left in this
economy to withstand whatever shock you
want to throw [music] at it? Fantastic
lineup of guests over the next few hours
right here on Bloomberg TV later on this
morning around 9:30 Eastern time. We'll
catch up with [music] the National
Economic Council Director Kevin Hasset.
Look out for that reaction from the
White House to the payrolls report that
drops in [music] 26 minutes time. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Nadia
Love of UBS as crude hits multi-year
highs. Mike Collins of Py fixed income
on finding opportunity in geopolitical
risk and Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research
predicting a soft jobs report. We begin
this hour with stocks heading lower as
crude hits new heights. Nadia Levelvel
of UBS writes, "Markets may be volatile
in the short term, but we emphasize the
importance of letting diversification,
not policy bets, do the heavy lifting."
Nadia joins us now for more. Nadia, good
morning.
>> Morning.
>> There was a bet on global equities, a
bet on a good economy, and a bet on
accommodative monetary policy. Does the
shock of the last week upend some of
that for you?
>> A little bit in the near term, but
again, not take not over the medium to
longer term. And so uh we do think that
markets will remain volatile but we want
to rem focus on the underlying growth
impulse which still remains intact. I
mean we've seen it in the macro data but
of course we recognize is if oil prices
continue to move higher it's hard for uh
investors to step in in this
environment. So you could see near-term
a cap on where the market goes. I think
also heading into the weekend is
difficult for the market to hold risk
and that's why you probably see the
market week ahead ahead of payrolls.
Even if you get a strong payrolls
number, I question whether you will see
a rally in the market because we're not
sure what's going to happen over the
weekend. You know, history has told us
over the last year that things get tends
to happen over the weekend that can
cause volatility in the market on
Monday. So you might see the market sort
of wait into the hole and see u um
pattern until they get a little bit more
clarity on on the situation.
>> You have positive views on Europe, on
Japan, on China. Both are very exposed
to this situation. Both are big energy
importers. If you change those views,
>> we have not changed those views, but we
recognize that the risk that higher
energy prices have to these areas of the
market that are importers, right? And
and and their economic growth will be
sensitive to that. And but again,
assuming that this gets wrapped up in
the next couple of weeks and I I I
understand that that is a tall order and
there's a lot of uncertainty around
that, we think that this mark these
markets are still positioned to do well.
I mean, I I I'll take for example this
past week, we did upgrade a market like
South Korea. Why? you know, the market
was down significantly because of what's
going on in the Middle East and concerns
around oil imports and and the increase
that we're seeing in oil prices, but the
core of the story in South Korea is
really around memory. That hasn't
changed fundamentally. So, this is an
opportunity. So my point is what we're
looking for is for massive dislocation
in the market that also could be a
buying opportunity recognizing that
near-term volatility can continue. But
if you're looking out, you know, 3 to 6
months to a year from now that this is
might not be a bad entry point for some
of those markets. So, in the
surveillance war room, John and I have a
huge calendar and we are checking the
boxes of when it's okay and then when
it's not okay uh for this conflict to
keep going and we use this red marker to
circle that date and we can't really
decide where to put it because everyone
seems to have a different place where
they're putting it. At what point in the
calendar do you end up saying, I got to
reset. I got to rethink some of my
assumptions and maybe some of these
markets that previously looked positive
are going to be structurally challenged
by this oil embargo by this oil uh
seizure in terms of inability to
transport in the seas.
>> Yes, I think if this continues for
another one to two weeks then you're
probably in that scenario. Now remember,
you know, Russia Ukraine where you saw
that the market was concerned about what
3 million battles a day potentially
getting disrupted and oil prices spiked
to almost 130. Brent, if we're sort of
in that situation, the disit would be
worse because we know that we're kind of
frozen in the straight of Hammuds right
now. And it's a matter of it's not about
insurance, right? It's about safety and
passing through the straight. And so, if
there isn't an unlocking of that
blockage in the next couple of weeks,
you could see all prices spike and then
it's hard for people to step into to
risk at that it becomes even harder to
step into risk at that point.
>> One to two weeks is a pretty short
timeline.
>> It is a short timeline. Yeah, we're
[clears throat] talking about something
that very uh is seems to be very close,
especially given the lack of an off-ramp
right now. How much downside could there
be in markets right now? Should we have
the other pillar of bullish sentiment
fall away, which is that the economy
otherwise is pretty good?
>> Yeah. So, you have the supply shock and
so markets are likely going to trade off
on that. You know, you're going to have
that knee-jerk reaction. you could see
markets down, you know, the five or 10%
from here just in the next few weeks if
you do see this spike to oil, you know,
above $100 and approaching $130. But
again, I think it goes back to like what
does this mean for the fun fundamental
outlook for the economy. Now, if this
does if if by the time you get to April
that you can have some unlocking of
that, then it shouldn't be too
disruptive to the overall economic
growth pictures. You still have consumer
stimulus that's coming through. you
still have inflation that I wouldn't say
that you you know it takes about three
months right for oil prices sustain oil
prices for that to really pass through
to inflation so inflation should be well
behaved by the time we get in the back
half the year you have a Fed that's also
on standby if this becomes too
disruptive to the economy so again it's
about taking that longer term view in
the back half of the year but
recognizing that near term that you
could be in for some volatile markets
>> everybody is caught so offside think
about the consensus trades the consensus
trades were really building up. Get long
international equities, reduce your
exposure to tech, get long the
cyclicals, short the US dollar. And that
has all flipped in the last week.
>> If you asked somebody at the beginning
of the year, what's the pain trade? They
would say a strong dollar. Because
everyone was expecting a weak dollar and
a move away from dollar denominated
assets just overall. Guess what? We just
got a rip roaring rally in the dollar.
And guess what? A rip roaring faceoff in
terms of people who have been following
the trends. All of those trend following
uh funds are facing some interesting
moments
>> and a change in the way that people look
at the US equity market. Tech was a
source of risk. Now it's a pillar of
support. Is that the story for you?
>> So tech tech we we downgraded tech to a
neutral a few weeks ago and we still
think that the riskreward is balance in
tech and again it's not a negative view.
It's be more selective within tech. And
so it's tech you're seeing software get
in a bit of a relief rally now because
valuation has come in. We question the
sustainability of that just given the
overall still concerns that are there
around disruption risk. Right now the
market is focused on happening in a in
in Iran but I think in a few weeks once
this subsides then those old risks will
start to come back to the forefront of
it. So you still want to remain
balanced. What we've been talking to to
our clients about this year is really
managing concentrated position and when
we look on our clients books a lot of it
is in tax. So we're not necessarily
saying add more to tech right now. We're
saying also use the opportunity to
rightsize those positions and really add
diversification across the portfolio.
>> We caught up with Jonathan Kinsky of
BTIG just yesterday. He's written
extensively about the need for semis to
hold in there that you need semis to
hold in there for this index to hold up.
Just a bit of weakness coming in
yesterday even with decent numbers out
of Broadcom
>> which is why we subsequently got a a
note from Jonathan Kinsky saying I don't
know this is looking a little more
sketchy. Again, this is moving so
quickly and a question about the
underlying hit to the US economy really
depends on the calendar which is an
unknown.
>> Nadia, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Nadia Love there of UBS.
Nadia's point on going into the weekend
I think is such an important one. It
might sound unsophisticated, but
ultimately it's real. It's how people
think about going into the weekend right
now, facing the risk of this escalating
even more and a reluctance to get along
even if you get a good jobs number in 20
minutes time. We are conditioned by our
circumstance considering that every
weekend is not a weekend and it hasn't
been for this year which is why it feels
so so so long. But it really right now
we're dealing with people who have been
burned every single weekend with some
news headline that completely upends
their assumptions. So why would anyone
want to take any risk?
>> There's a human aspect to this. People
are exhausted in this market. It's the
longest first quarter ever. We've only
just started March. Yeah.
>> And this is how we've started it.
>> And they've gotten their hands slapped
many times when they try to get any
conviction on anything. So why would you
have strong positioning given that
backdrop?
>> Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. The [music] latest out of Iran.
Iran fired a barrage of missiles and
drones targeting countries across the
Persian Gulf overnight including Saudi
Arabia, Kuwait, and Bahrain. Meanwhile,
Israel renewed its own air strikes
hitting Thrron and Beirut. [music]
Fears of a prot protracted war around
the strategic straight of hormuz are
roing markets with crude headed for its
biggest weekly surge since 2022. [music]
In the meantime, the White House is
ruling out using the Treasury Department
to trade oil futures for [music] now as
it considers a range of options to ease
the surge in oil prices. According to a
person familiar, the administration
[music] thinks the Treasury Department's
ability to affect the market is limited.
The White House is also wary of tapping
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve right
away. And President Trump has fired DHS
Secretary Christy Gnome in the first
shakeup of his second term cabinet to
date. Gnome had recently come under fire
from lawmakers [music] over deadly
immigration operations in Minneapolis
that saw two US citizens killed [music]
as well as highbudget ad campaigns for
the DHS that she commissioned. Trump
announcing that Oklahoma Senator Mark
Wayne Mullen will succeed her in that
role. That's you from a brief. John
>> Yahara. Thank you. Have you seen the
commercial?
>> Yes, I have.
>> It is so high-end the production value
of [music] that commercial.
>> I was saying the same thing.
>> I can only imagine how much that cost.
I've heard hundreds of millions.
>> Well, the whole
>> just tens of millions.
>> Yeah. The whole campaign cost $220
million. [music] And the message she
said was very wellreceived. She talked
about the impressions, but I believe
that the production company was 8 days
old when it won my goodness the more
than $100 million contract. [music]
>> Kind of what you should expect from the
Harris campaign for the presidency,
[laughter]
>> right? It's kind of scary how quickly
these government members can spend this
kind of money.
>> It is pretty remarkable. It also is
remarkable what gets someone over the
line in terms of getting into the firing
line. Uh what it takes, what the bar is
to get someone [music] to potentially
give up thrown at the Harris campaign
there. just reminded me of that kind of
wasteful expense, you know. Anyway,
>> I understand.
>> All right, up next on the program, the
morning calls plus Michael Collins
appealing fixed income as we count you
down to the payrolls report. That report
[music] 16 minutes away from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
because that inflation's hot. It's going
to look even worse now with the oil
prices at least on headline. And then if
you get a solid job, it does say there's
you can sit there and wait for us
thinking about the [music] longer term
in terms of policy. This is something
we're just going to have to kind of put
off for now. It's not clear this will be
one shock after another after another.
That was the Fed Governor Chris Waller
on the shock coming out of the Middle
East in anticipation of what we might
see in a payroll report 13 minutes away.
Going into that jobs report, equity
futures declining by 0.6% on the S&P
down by point8 on the NASDAQ and the
commodity market. Quick [music] update
on what's happening in commodities right
now for Brent and for WTI. Brent just
off session highs but still up by 4%
[music] and WTI just short of 86 at 85
83. Let's get you some morning calls.
That's the price action. First [music]
up, Barkclay's upgrading mesh to equal
weight, saying the Red Sea reopening is
unlikely in the short term, keeping
freight rates elevated. Elsewhere, Piper
Sandler upgrading defense company Car to
overweight, saying the war [music] in
Iran is serving as the latest funding
driven initiative. And finally, JP
Morgan upgrading Dow to overweight,
citing inflationary pressures in the
energy sector and shipment restrictions
across the Middle East. Dow is up in a
pre-market by 3.8%. And that's kind of
the inflationary story we're all keeping
on [music] top of at the moment.
>> Yeah. And how much do some of these
companies have the pricing power to
actually pass that through to customers?
Well, there's some price inelastic
customers looking for materials right
now. So, this actually might be a real
boon for the companies doing the
providing.
>> Are you thinking of some tech spending?
>> I am thinking [music] of
>> $650 billion capex.
>> A lot of money to go around. You can
spare an extra few dollars. I think I've
got some uh spare coins.
>> Whip around Blackstone. [laughter]
>> Let's do a whip around and see. I can
come up with some uh spare metal if you
can give me a couple hundred million.
>> 8:30 Eastern time. The jobs report is 12
minutes away. Mike Collins of PGM fixed
income writing. While the Fed's hands
may be tied for the next couple of
quarters, the longerterm potential for
much lower interest rates is not fully
appreciated. Mike joins us now for more.
Mike, welcome. You got to build on that
for me, buddy. Because right now there's
a threat to lower interest rates. Why do
you think ultimately that's the
direction of travel?
>> Yeah, certainly in the near term,
Jonathan, as as Governor Waller just
just said, you know, there's a lot of
challenges for the FOMC uh to move the
dial at all right now, right? It seems
like the path of least resistance is for
them to sit on their hands uh to wait
for the shakeout from this this war in
the in the Middle East to to play out in
terms of energy markets and inflation uh
and the economic uh impact um but also
you know looking at the jobs market what
is the trend there has it stabilized we
we'll get more in a few minutes
obviously but you know what the markets
are pricing in is that the Fed cuts
twice basically for the rest of our
lives right and gets the funds rate down
into the low 3s and keeps it there for a
while and then eventually hikes it back
up toward four. Right? I think that is
the mispricing I'm talking about over
the long term. I don't think the markets
are really pricing in a scenario where
you do have a decline in global economic
activity. Maybe you have disinflation,
right? Maybe this AI capital investment
uh results in a productivity enhancement
that creates disinflation, which is the
the playbook, right, for for
productivity. Uh and and that could
allow the Fed to cut, you know, 200
basis points, not not 25 basis points,
right? Remember, you have a a president,
a Treasury Secretary, and ultimately a
new Fed chair and Kevin Walsh who all
want rates to be a lot lower, right,
over the over the long term. So, so
that's something that we're always kind
of thinking about in terms of
positioning our portfolios.
>> So, Mike, is that an argument for
10-year bond yields to be closer to
three than they are to four?
>> You know, I've been telling our clients,
Jonathan, if you're if you're kind of
between four and four and a half on the
on the 10-year, that's kind of the buy
zone. Anything above four and a half is
an overshoot. We've we've breached that
a couple times in the last, you know,
year or two and it has been a buying
opportunity. I think three and a half to
four uh at least for the next couple of
years feels like closer to fair value uh
for me. Uh anything below three and a
half it means you're having that big
slowdown or that big disinflationary
event. Uh but yeah, I mean we're looking
when bond yields back up into the into
the kind of lower to mid-4s, we've been
adding duration tactically generally and
I do think that that is the right trade
over the longer term. I know it's not
working today. Uh but over the longer
term, and I know we've talked about
this, Lisa, on this program before, I do
think the hedging qualities of high
quality fixed income of having duration
uh will benefit your portfolios. It will
work as a hedge in a real flight to
quality in a in a real riskoff.
>> Michael, you you talked about a couple
of different scenarios for why rates
would go down and they have polar
opposite ramifications for risk assets.
One is a potential global slowdown
that's significant. Another is increased
productivity from artificial
intelligence that allows growth to
continue with a Federal Reserve chair
that wants to cut rates at the same time
that inflation is coming down. Which do
you think is more probable? How do you
position for risk?
>> Yeah. I mean, I I think the the most
probable scenario, you know, our base
case, as we put it, Lisa, is is that the
Fed does what the markets are pricing
in. Maybe they cut once or twice. They
probably don't do anything for three or
six months. and maybe Wars can get a
couple of cuts in over the next 12
months and and that seems like a
reasonable scenario. But again, over the
longer term, if you do have this
productivity boost and you do have this
disinflation reemerging, which I think
is is actually a reasonably high
probability that the markets really
aren't aren't pricing in that much. I
mean, obviously, if you look at the
inflation rate that's priced in over the
long term via TIPS markets and inflation
swaps, it's been very sticky, right?
like 2.3%. I mean, the markets are not
pricing in this runaway inflation. So,
the markets have been pretty sanguin on
inflation, but what's not priced in is
kind of, you know, a disinflationary
trend. You've seen it in other places
like in in Europe, right? And and
obviously in China, they're fighting
deflation. And I wouldn't discount that
scenario, right? And you're looking at
consumers. We'll get retail sales this
morning as well, you know, who are
strapped. I mean 80% of consumers in
this country and probably in the world
are really strapped on on spending their
next discretionary dollar and I think
you're seeing more companies realize
that and and have the inability to pass
through any any higher prices and with
regards to these tariffs. So so that I
think is something that that could
happen. We could have a one handle on
inflation in a year from now and wow
what would the Fed be doing then right
then they have two green lights. They
have the job market green light and they
have the inflation green light and you
could see the funds rate, you know, into
the twos really quickly in that
scenario.
>> But Mike, what would what does it do
right now for say high yield bonds? The
idea that we could be getting a Fed
that's on hold at least in the near term
because of the oil price shock at the
same time that you see disinflation and
a slowing down in the global economy. Is
this a time to just get out of riskier
assets altogether?
you know, spreads are fully valued just
like equities have become fully valued
and and I think they probably leak a
little bit wider, right? And we're
positioned for that. We've been, as
we've talked about on this program for
probably a couple of years now, Lisa,
we're, you know, very defensively
positioning credit. We've been very
careful in the private credit space,
really scrutinizing uh the these new
deals and being very selective and and
that is the right position to be in. And
we have generally avoided a lot of these
these these cockroaches, right? But but
add on the weakness. I mean I spreads
generally right now are about 15% off
their tights across investment grade
corporates, high yield corporates, CDX
indices. They're 15% wider, I'm sorry,
off the recent tights and and that in
the past, you know, couple of years has
been a little bit of a opportunity to
add. Uh but I think the tendency is for
these to continue to widen and and we
would be adding on that week.
>> Mike, you've been careful. The market is
everybody else. Has everybody else been
careful? You know, I I think generally
credit underwriting in the public
markets, Jonathan, the gigantic
investment grade and high yield
corporate bond markets has been really
good. Um, you know, it's really these
pockets of the the levered loan market
and the private markets that that you're
seeing some of the excesses. You've had
a lot of new entrance, a lot of money
chasing those markets. People have been
asking me, Jonathan, for years now, what
do you think about the private debt
markets? Right? And I say, well, when in
my 40 years of experience, whenever you
have too much money chasing, you know, a
limited opportunity, it creates
problems. And we're certainly seeing
that happen, right? I mean, you again,
you have to be really selective in in
that market and be careful who you
invest in. And and so you're going to
have problems. What we're seeing now to
me is is just part and parcel of of what
happens when you have a imbalance in
supply and demand.
>> Mike, it's good to see you, buddy. As
always, Michael Collins there of PGM
fixed income looking for one handle was
on inflation and yields gapping lower.
>> Yeah. And talking about the idea that
the Fed will be cutting significantly
more. I also love the point. Everyone
just talks about these couple new
entrance. This is kind of reminds me of
2010. Two guys in a Bloomberg creating a
new investment broker. It's sort of low
like two guys in a, you know, a
spreadsheet or creating a private equity
shop.
>> Everyone says, you know, [music] we've
been careful.
>> I know. So there you go.
>> Okay. Up next on the program, the jobs
report. The estimate as follows. 55K.
The previous number 130. Reaction from
Stephanie Roth in just a [music] moment.
The open about 60 minutes away. The data
seconds away. Payrolls [music] and
retail sales in just a moment. Mike McKe
will break that down for you. The scores
look like this going into it. Equity
futures on the S&P down by 0.5 on the
NASDAQ negative.7. In the bond market,
yields higher for five consecutive
[music] sessions going into this. a
10-year bonard this morning up by two
basis points 416 and this move in crude
dictating almost everything and [music]
every conversation we're having WTI at
86 Bren at 89 with your jobs report
here's Mike McKe morning Mike
>> well Chris Waller is going to be having
a heart attack now 92,000 jobs lost
during the month last month's 130,000
revised down to 126,000 not a major
revision down but a loss of 92,000 jobs
Now, there is certainly going to be some
weather involved in that, and we'll
check on that in just a second. The uh
total payroll revision over 2 months is
-69,000.
So, you got to add those two things
together. Change in pirate private
payrolls down 86,000. Manufacturing
payrolls down 12,000.
Average hourly earnings up 4/10en of a
percent puts the year-over-year at 3.8%.
That's a tick higher than it was.
Average weekly hours 34.3. And the labor
department says we'd see a decline in
that probably if there was a weather
effect. So it isn't clear that that is
the case yet. And labor force
participation drops to 62%.
So uh some bad news on the labor front.
Now on the retail sales front and these
are January numbers delayed by the
government shutdown. Retail sales
headlines dropped by 2/10 but exautos
they are flat. Uh weather may be an
impact there. control group up 3/10en of
a percent after a flat reading in
December. So, a bit of an improvement,
but not a huge jump in retail sales. So,
the numbers aren't particularly overall
good this morning. I'll look at the
further details for you and get back to
you in just a minute.
>> M. Thank you, buddy. Looking forward to
those details. Right now, the headline,
bad news is bad news. Equity futures
near session lows. We're down across the
board on the S&P 500 at the moment,
declining and declining by 0.8% 8%
underperformance from the Russell as you
might expect. We're down by more than
1%. In the bond market, yields flip from
being positive to negative. We're down
at the front end of the curve by three
or four basis points on a 2-year at 354.
This is double bad because I'll tell you
a market that isn't moving in response
to this. And it's the commodity market.
Brent and WTI still near session highs.
Brent close to 89, WTI close to 86. And
this is the problem for the Federal
Reserve. This is what you don't want.
You don't want to see downside surprises
on the economic data and then see upside
surprises when it comes to inflation.
That is not what you want to see at all.
>> This is the worst case scenario of, and
I'm dreading to saying this, but
stagflationary shocks. Essentially, oil
prices rising rapidly at a time where
there doesn't seem to be that much
strength in the underlying uh employment
market. The good news is that January
wasn't revised significantly lower, only
126,000 versus the 130,000 uh previously
stated. The bad news is it's not just
that there was a job destruction in the
month of February, but that the
unemployment rate rose to 4.4% raising
questions about how you can look through
this if you're trying to come up with
policy.
>> Does it go against the grain? Let's
think about the data we've had so far.
ISM has been pretty good now for a
couple of months, both services and
manufacturing. The data we've seen
elsewhere, claims didn't scream
weakness. Didn't see that in initial
jobless claims this week or the week
prior for that matter. Does this data
point go against the grain given what
we've seen? Well, it certainly has gone
against the sentiment that we've heard
from a lot of investors and the reason
why people had confidence in the
strength of the US economy. People might
say though that the ISM services data
hasn't really cohered with what we've
seen in the labor market for quite a
while and hasn't really been a good
forward-looking indicator. Other people
say, look, the responses to the survey,
the job survey, have come come down
significantly. So, can we count on this
data in the same way? And then the push
back to that is it's the best we've got.
So if this is the best we've got, what
do you do with that as a policy maker
given a lot of conflicting data singles
given that other signs, the beige book
included, say things are okay.
>> Let's go through the headlines then. The
change in non-farm payrolls negative
92,000 against an estimate of 55K.
That's a big downside surprise on the
payrolls report. The revisions not great
either. To Bremo's point, unemployment
should anchor the conversation around
how much slack is there. Is there
greater slack, less slack? There's
greater slack based on this unemployment
rate coming in at 4.4% previously 4.3.
The expectations was it would stay
there. For more details, Mike, I want to
bring you back into the conversation.
Are the potential distortions? Does it
go against the grain? What do the
details tell you this morning?
>> Well, right now, uh it doesn't look like
some of the outside influences we might
have thought of had uh an influence.
Only 228,000 people not at work because
of weather. However, there is an impact
on the strike side. There was a strike
at Kaiser Health Insurance. 31,000
workers off the job and we see a decline
in health and social s assistance uh of
34,000 during the month. So there is a
significant issue there. Uh we also see
that average weekly hours did not move.
So along with the weather, that's the
basic uh issue that we have.
Construction jobs down 11,000. That
might have been weather. We were
expecting a rise. We saw a rise in ADP.
There's been a rise in the last couple
months because of the AI constructions.
Uh private service producing jobs
overall led by these healthcare numbers
down 61,000.
Uh financial activities one of the few
that gained 10,000 and uh government
down by 6,000. So it looks like some of
the uh Doge firings have worked their
way through the system right now. still
looking at some more of this data and
I'll get you some retail sales data in
just a second.
>> We'll come back to you Mike. Thanks for
that buddy. Appreciate it. So this from
Neil Data of Runmack for him. This is
why 2026 is not 2022. There was an
energy shock in 22. We had a strong job
market, excess savings to draw down.
Today the labor market sucks and saving
buffers have been drawn down. Neil's
opinion this morning.
>> Yeah. And the reason why it's
complicated is because of some of these
other peripheral issues that you point
to. Whether it's the ADP report, whether
it's the fact uh that you have other job
search engines talking about emergence
of some recovery. So how do you trust
the data? The data is different. How do
you look at economy that's changing
structurally? And then how do you
understand whether it's inflationary,
disinflationary when you have an oil
price shock, but you also potentially
have an AI shock, which also could
potentially have a productivity shock. I
mean, this is a moment of shocks that is
leaving us all reeling.
>> Is your head spinning? I think most
people's heads are spinning right now.
Literally, I lay down at night two
nights ago
>> feeling dizzy
>> and I closed my eyes and the entire room
started spinning. Maybe that says more
about me. I had not been drinking
anything, but I just
>> Thanks for clarifying. [laughter] Thanks
for clarifying. People were asking
questions.
>> Maybe I should have.
>> Equities down by about 0.7% as things
stand on the Russell. We're down by 1%.
Yields were positive, now they're
negative. We're down by two basis points
on the session at 355 on twos, on tens
at about 412. Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research is with us around the table.
Stephanie, good morning.
>> Good morning. So we've got the strikes
in healthcare largely anticipated. We
were looking for that data to come
through. We've got the weather effect as
well. How weak is this weak report?
>> I mean it's certainly soft. I think
another thing that we haven't talked
about appears to be something with birth
death, although we're still looking into
it. The birth death adjustment was
90,000 compared to something well over
100,000 in the year ago print because
it's not seasonally adjusted. So that
might have also been the reverse of what
we got in January where it was a very
strong adjustment. So that added about
50,000 in January. Perhaps you got some
somewhat of the reverse in February.
That said, it still was a fairly weak
report and that does leave the the the
Fed in a tough spot because we're in
this stagflationary backdrop, but like
Neil Data said, we're not in 2022 where
we had a lot of supply chain shocks. We
had a very strong demand backdrop. There
were stimulus checks that were
continuing to come through. This is a
very different backdrop and I expect
them to look through it a lot more than
they were able to in 22. I'm wondering
what you make of this report, how
distorted it is versus actually
expressing weakness. I'm looking at some
of the components underneath it. And it
does look like the Kaiser strike, the
healthc care strike did have an implica,
some influence over this. 34,000 jobs
removed because of that. But it's also
leisure 27,000 jobs down. You've got
private services down 61,000 in
information down 11 thou, thousand. So
there are these other points of
weakness. This is pretty broad base.
It's not just coming from one sector.
Can you look at this and make some
conclusion about how much heat there is
still in this employment market?
>> I mean, if you if you take a step back
and look at some of the other indicators
because we know there was a lot of
things going on in February, claims look
kind look largely fine. The other
measures of of of the labor market look
a little bit better. Challenger this
week didn't show the same type of
layoffs that you got in January. The the
broad picture tells you we're still in
this low high or low fire environment.
It's not strong by any means, but it's
probably not as weak as today's data
suggests. And if we were to wind a month
ago, we were or at least the market
narrative was such that the labor market
is on fire and we're we're in a much
different situation. So I I think
looking through all of the noise, it's a
labor market that is okay but not
strong. We've talked a lot and you've
said that you should look through the
noise and this is not a Fed that needs
to cut rates. How much does the oil
shock change that given the fact that
that's going to really pressure a lot of
households? They're going to be spending
$160 filling up their uh their gas tanks
rather than say $120 in short order. I
mean, how does that affect how you see
us looking through this?
>> Yeah, I mean, interestingly, the market
has been trading it the other way where
the the oil shock makes the Fed be able
to be less accommodative. I agree with
you, though. The the oil shock,
especially in the backdrop of an economy
that is not overly strong or overheating
tells you that if anything, the Fed
should sort of wait and watch the demand
implications because we might see softer
demand such that they they need to be a
little bit more accommodative, although
perhaps it might take a little longer
for them to be able to cut rates. I
think it's fair to say that Governor
Wallace voting for a rate cut at the
next meeting. Have some company in
Governor Myron. How much company do
those two have right now in the
committee?
>> Probably not many. And and the Fed
speakers most recently have said we want
to watch and kind of see the
implications of the of the oil price
shock. And one payroll sprint is not
going to change that although they might
sound a little bit more dovish than
would otherwise be the case.
>> Mike McKe standing by still with us.
Mike, I want to bring you back into the
conversation. For the people just tuning
in, just arriving this morning and
checking what's happening with payrolls.
I can tell you a big downside surprise
negative 92k on non-farm payrolls the
headline number the estimate we were
looking for was positive 55,000 the
unemployment rate higher than expected
as well at 4.4% 4% against an estimate
of 4.3 and some negative revisions as
well. Mike, you went through the
details. Mike, what stands out for you?
>> Well, uh, looking at the unemployment
side of it and this is the household
survey, we see a a change of 18,000
people added to the labor force. Hardly
anything. We'd seen more than a
thousand,
a million, 100 thousand, sorry, uh, the
prior month who went away. the
employment situation, the level change
for employment was down 185,000 jobs
while the unemployment level was up
203,000 jobs, people who were
unemployed. So there's your rise to
4.4%.
Uh but the interesting thing here is
that uh the uh number of people who are
unable to work comes off of the
household side. So to the effect there
was an impact. It's on the household
survey of the number of people who were
not working. Uh retail sales, we've got
numbers for them now. And the big drop
was in uh motor vehicles 0.9% 9/10en of
8%. That's largely probably because of
weather. All the cars on the new car
lots buried in snow. Not going to get a
lot of people uh who are out to look.
2.9% drop in gasoline station sales.
Remember back when gasoline prices were
falling? That was uh during the month of
January. Uh clothing store sales down
1.7%, sporting goods down 1.2% and those
are post Christmas kind of numbers.
General merchandise stores up 4/10en of
a percent and food up 2/10en of a
percent. So a mixed picture. People
buying staples, not going out and buying
things that they don't really need. And
the overall picture here is that the
economy was slower in January in terms
of retail sales as people consolidated
and then uh the labor market was hit in
February and the question is how much of
it is uh as Stephanie pointed out the
birth death model and how which was
revised and how much of that is also
weather. But uh it is not a pretty
picture and I think you've reached the
right conclusion. Chris Waller will
probably vote for a rate cut.
>> I think it's fair to say Mike. Thank
you. We'll come back to you in just a
moment. There are some excuses, some
reasons for this weak number. The
strikes in healthcare being one, the
weather being two. Ultimately though,
there's a trend here. The labor market
has been weak over the last 12 months.
That's been a problem. It's why the
Federal Reserve has been reducing
interest rates. And more problematic
now, you've got this move in energy
because as we speak, we seem to be
approaching new highs in the energy
market. Brent crude at 8950 and WTI
north of 86.
>> Yeah, the crude market's not responding
to the demand side right now. It's not a
demand side issue. So if people feel
constrained in any way to spend, it does
not matter at all for crude prices given
the fact that that is a supply side
shock driven by the fact that oil cannot
get through the straight of vermouth and
frankly is not being produced in a lot
of locations in the Middle East. This is
a huge issue given the fact that this is
a stagflationary mix. how much weakness
there actually is in the labor market. A
big question, but it's happening at a
time of structural change, which adds
the extra anxiety on top of it of a how
to read this and how much you want to
see a hot labor market going into this
transition period.
>> There's a better story to tell for the
American economy coming into 26. We've
had the rate cuts. We're about to get
the tax refunds and some big companies
want to spend some big big money. But
moves like that in gas prices could
undermine the whole thing. If you're
getting a tax refund, you start to see
the price of things that you pay for
every single day starting to creep
higher, you'll be a bit more
conservative, a bit more cautious about
how you interact with the economy.
>> This is the reason why I'm actually
surprised that no one's talking about
the disinflationary shock of uh oil
prices going up. There always has been a
debate between whether it is
inflationary or disinflationary and over
a medium and longer term, it is
disinflationary or deflationary because
of demand destruction. That has not been
priced too long into the yield curve.
I'm wondering if it's going to start
being reflected a little bit more after
this.
>> So, the opening bouts about 46 minutes
away. And here's the setup. Session lows
on equities down by about 1% on the S&P
500. Yields were higher for a fifth
consecutive session. Now, off the back
of that downside, surprise on payrolls
now slightly lower at the front end on
twos and the long end on 10. 10's back
to about 412. And in the commodity
market, crude higher by more than 4% on
Brent to 89 on WTI up by more than six
to 86. Joining us now to extend the
conversation, Jeffrey Rosenberg of Black
Rockck. Jeff, we got a lot to get
through with you, sir. So, let's start
with what's happening in the labor
market. What's your assessment of things
at the moment?
>> Yeah, listening to you guys, uh, Lisa,
like you, my head's spinning as well,
and you guys have really covered it very
well. I mean a lot of excuses, a lot of
unique factors, but it is a weak report
overall and you're seeing that in the
bond market and it is this tension uh
you know between the weakening in the
labor market and then the near-term
inflationary shock coming out of the the
oil price increase. One thing I would
highlight uh you know and Lisa you kind
of you kind of touched on it is sort of
the tension between the short-term
impact and the long-term impact. If you
look at 5year 5year forward break even
inflation certainly what you're seeing
here is a move on the front end about 80
basis points in the 2-year but if you
look at the forward curve in terms of uh
oil futures you look at the forward
curve in terms of inflation the
expectation here is that this is a this
is a temporary shock and so for the Fed
when they're faced with the tradeoff
between a temporary shock to inflation
and this more sustained movement
downward in payrolls, I think they're
going to error on the side of the
payroll and the growth side. And the
other point that you highlighted which I
think is really important is the longer
and the stronger that the oil price
increase increases, you start to bring
about the the thing you just mentioned
which is demand destruction and the flip
side. And that makes the Treasury market
move here very much on the nice edge
because you could very quickly swing
from a focus on inflation to a focus on
the Fed's focus on the downside uh risk
protection in terms of cutting rates.
>> Hey Jeeoff, I just want to jump in
because we're getting some headlines
crossing a Bloomberg and seeing crude
gap out to new highs on the session.
This from the Journal. The Q8 is cutting
all production at some oil fields. The
Saudi Arabia, UAE are also nearing
limits of storage facilities. Now, this
has been what we've been tracking all
week. There's a problem with the
movement of crude. So, even if you're
free to produce as much as you want, at
some point, if there's no release valve
for that to get the crude out of the
country through a pipeline or through
the straight of form, you're going to
breach storage capacity and then you
have to start shutting in production. We
saw that with Iraq reducing production
early this week. And Lisa, now according
to the Wall Street Journal, you're
starting to see it in other nations as
well.
>> Yeah, because their storage facilities
are full. and how much does this end up
just continuing to push up prices simply
because even if this is an conflict
that's resolved in relatively near term
there is an actual supply mismatch that
is not happening in terms of how much is
being supplied and there's going to be a
lag time to bring those supplies back
online and actually get them cir
circulating so it's dual right on one
hand yes you're having an obstruction
between the free flow of crude and other
energy supplies through the straight of
her and elsewhere and number two now
you're getting a true shuttering of the
actual supplies of the actual production
and that takes a long time to get back
online.
>> Just to point out once again, this
coming from the Wall Street Journal,
their latest reporting that Q8 is coming
all production after running out of room
to store crude and other more major
producers in the region are getting
closer to those levels as well. How
close, we don't know for sure. If you
look at the reaction, WTI approaching 87
and Brent getting closer to 90 now at
8973 and higher on the day by 5%.
Jeeoff, a question we've been asking
continuously is how bond traders should
trade that shock in the energy market.
Does it mean higher yields or eventually
should it mean lower yields?
>> Well, you know, we're all focused on
what the oil analysts are saying about
that and and they have been talking
about this shutin risk and how much time
there is based on storage and it was,
you know, in weeks 22, 25 days, you
know, we're 7 days, 6 days into this.
So, that that headline is not so much a
surprise. obviously is a negative
headline and the issue is really both
the duration of the conflict and is
there an ability to mitigate the the
blockage uh of of the straits. But the
the bottom line is the longer this goes
on the greater the risk that the
movement of uh oil beyond this kind of
8590 you know what what some of the oil
analysts talking about you know a bigger
shock that's when you start to tip the
bond market from uh inflation to demand
destruction and and and I I think that's
what we're watching for in terms of a
much more aggressive move in terms of
the oil price. you start to think about
the demand destruction, the deflationary
aspect, and what I just talked about in
terms of the Fed's response, you may
start pricing back in some of the cuts
that we just priced out based on the uh
inflationary impact, which is the first
order impact right now.
>> Jeeoff, do you think that the equity
market and risk assets in general are
just way too complacent about what's
going on right now in oil?
Well, you know, there's a there's a
really interesting story and I know you
guys have covered it about kind of
what's going on in the surface which
kind of masks what's going on
underneath. And if you look at what's
going on underneath, there is
spectacular amounts of volatility that
if you saw that happening now, it's a
lot of some stocks are going up and some
stocks are going down. And so the impact
on the index levels is actually not
being seen. But the volatility and the
rotation that you're seeing underneath
the surface really does say there
there's no complacency here. There's a
lot of kind of defensive rotation and
risk mitigation reflective of of both
themes. Obviously the the war theme is
the new one, but but the the prior theme
uh that we have been talking so much
about of course is the AI disruption
theme.
>> Jeeoff, there's this real issue that a
lot of people have been coming into this
oil shock saying let's look through it
and the fact that there still is
momentum and strength in the US economy.
Okay, got it. That was 130,000 jobs
created in January. Oh, wait a second.
Maybe not. There was actually a downward
revision of I I believe retracting
67,000
jobs from that figure and we now have a
negative print that is substantial for
the February read. Does that shake this
narrative that the US economy is plenty
strong enough to look through any shock
even if it is sustained for three or
four weeks into the oil market? Yeah,
it's a it's a good question, Lisa,
because all of these excuse me, all of
these uh pieces of information, right,
they operate on the margin, right? So So
you you replace the 130 and there's a
revision and and now you have a negative
print and yes, there's some some special
special factors and obviously the the
big new uh shock to the relatively
benign economic outlook for 2026 is is
is the is the oil shock. So, so all of
that is is going to undermine some of
the confidence in that kind of benign
macroeconomic environment and and you're
seeing that you're seeing that in in
risk pricing. You're seeing it at some
level in in the overall index levels.
You're seeing it in credit markets and
credit spreads. So, there is a a
reasonable rational response there. The
issue and and no one knows right now is
really the duration. I'd say the the the
market response is is is kind of short
and contained, but that oil price
discussion we are having, you know,
that's really going to be the breakout
issue. Whether the market continues to
price it as short and contained and more
mitigated for the economic and the
financial market pricing or something
that is going to be much more impactful.
>> Hey Jeff, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here, sir. Jeff Rosenberg
there of Black Rockck. Three issues to
get through here. So, I'll work through
them one by one. We'll start with
payrolls. Came out about 20 minutes ago.
downside to price on the headline
number. The rest of the report not
great. Came in at negative 92k. The
change in non-farm payrolls we were
looking for was positive 55,000. On top
of that, moments ago, a report from the
Wall Street Journal suggesting that Q8
was about to cut production as it nears
storage capacity and we're seeing that
in other nations as well. We're getting
closer maybe to some bigger producers
doing the same thing. So that took crude
out to new highs at the moment. Brent
crude just short of 90 after breaching
that level for the first time today. and
you see equities at new lows, negative
1.2% on the S&P 500. The thing you keep
hearing about is how long is this going
to go on for? What's the duration of
this operation? Guiding that are the
goals. What are the objectives? That
takes us to point three. The president
of the United States with this just
moments ago and on social media, there
will be no deal with Iran except
unconditional surrender after that and
the selection of a great and acceptable
leader. This is an off-ramp that does
not feel like it's a tomorrow kind of
goal or even a Sunday or Monday kind of
goal. And we had Nadia Levelvel speaking
with us earlier talking about how she
thinks in about a week or two weeks the
game starts to change for markets. You
also have to add the fact that we just
got not a very good labor market print.
So that's really another underpinning
that we've gotten for uh the the risk
assets that are really being undermined
on two fronts right now. Stephanie Roth
of Wolf Research still with us around
the table. Stephanie, it's difficult to
follow all of this. What are you looking
for together with the team going into
the weekend?
>> Yeah, I think we're going to be
certainly digging into some of the
details of the print. It seems right now
like birth death model was also about 40
to 50,000 headwind. So, the combination
of that plus weather plus strikes makes
it still a bad report but maybe a little
bit less scary.
Energy prices is of course going to be
one of the the the primary concerns. And
then something we haven't even talked
about is the potential for some food
scarcity issues down the line if this
continues. That's something that is
certainly not getting a lot of focus,
but perhaps might become a real issue at
some point. This is a a real challenge
and it's it's a Fed that I think will
ultimately have to be a little bit more
dovish than would otherwise be the case.
I agree with exactly your point, Lisa.
>> Stephanie, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here. Stephanie Roth there of
Wolf Research. Thanks again to Jeff
Rosenberg of Black Rockck and to Mike
McKe for breaking down those numbers a
little bit earlier. Just frame out the
last 24 minutes. just the last 24
minutes, never mind this morning, the
last week or so, the last 24 minutes. A
big downside surprise on payrolls, a
president that's ruling out a deal
anytime soon. And then also the other
point that's kicking oil out to new
highs for the session that we're
starting to breach storage capacity and
key producers who need to reduce
production. All of that in the last 24
minutes going into the weekend.
>> This is a massive supply shock and it is
a stagflationary shock when you look at
the labor market. You put that together
with how long this is going to last,
what the off-ramp is given the
president's uh truth social post saying
that unconditional surrender is going to
be the only off-ramp that we can look
for. And you can understand that people
have a lot of jitters. Still so many
questions remain. This has been the
longest first quarter ever. You have
said this many, many times. Well, it
just got a whole lot longer because we
just have a new narrative now that we
have to grapple with.
>> Equity futures this morning down by 1.3%
on the S&P 500 in the bond market at the
moment. yield to lower and then higher
again by a basis point on twos and by a
basis point on tens tracking that bond
market is getting harder and harder.
>> I'm really not understanding the long
end of the yield curve. I'm just not
understanding it because on one hand you
have to think are we going to see some
sort of long-term inflationary shock or
is this going to ultimately cause the
Fed to be [music] more doubbish.
>> Up next for us here at Bloomberg we'll
catch up with Kevin Hasset the NEC
director. We'll do that in about 35
minutes time on Monday. Cameron Dawson
of New Edge Wealth, Sabbatra Japper of
Sojen, Kate Moore of City Wealth, Sevida
Subramanium of Bank of America from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Stay safe. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.